While hosting guests or defeating enemies , Quicksilver loves to annoy them during his bursts of super speed . X - Men : Professor X telepathically guides an anxious Logan — the latter has no idea where he is or why he ' s there , or why he ' s hearing a strange male voice inside his head , and because Dr. Jean Grey wanted to take a blood sample , Wolverine assumes that he ' s being experimented on — from the school ' s infirmary to Xavier ' s office , where Charles greets his guest with a polite " Good morning , Logan . " Professor X is aware of the traumas that Wolverine had experienced , and it ' s a bit disconcerting that the former took advantage of the latter ' s paranoia for a little bit of fun , even if it was only for a short time . X - Men : Apocalypse : After Scott accidentally damages Professor X ' s most beloved tree on the estate , the latter , strictly speaking , did n ' t have to say anything about the tree being planted by his grandfather ( especially when Charles had already made up his mind that he ' ll accept Scott as a new student ) , yet he did so anyway just to provoke a reaction from the teen . Scott does n ' t want to be at the school ( and thus one would assume that he would prefer to be rejected ) , yet he becomes extremely apprehensive over the possibility that Xavier is furious at him for ruining a priceless family heirloom . It should be noted that Scott is blindfolded , so he ca n ' t see Charles ' facial expression to judge the latter ' s emotional state . Alex most likely informed his brother that Xavier is a very powerful telepath , and warned Scott ( who has a tendency to be rude ) that he should behave himself in front of the Professor . Scott obviously failed spectacularly in that regard , and Charles then teased the young man by making him wince for a moment.Charles : My grandfather planted that tree when he was five years old . I used to swing from the branches of it myself . [ tree finishes falling apart ] I think that was probably my favourite tree . Scott : ( worried ) Does that mean I ' m - I ' m expelled ? Charles : ( smiles ) On the contrary . You ' re enrolled . X - Men : First Class has a few elements of Spy Fiction , with the mutants working for the government and dealing with top secret matters of international political intrigue agains a Cold War background . The Wolverine is often described by Mangold as Film Noir . Deadpool is largely a vulgar Romantic Comedy , with Wade ' s relationship with Vanessa driving much of its plot . It ' s also played with a bit , as the film tends to undergo a bit of mild Genre Shift based on Wade ' s narration.note IE , after Wade ' s mutation is activated he calls it a horror story , and the next few scenes indeed take on mild horror elements . Logan is a brutal and violent Neo - Western , strongly influenced by classics such as Unforgiven , Shane , and The Cowboys . Also , like The Wolverine before it , it has strong noir elements ( with a black and white cut even titled Logan Noir ) . Legion is a Psychological Thriller mixed with light horror . New Mutants is a teen horror film described as " Stephen King meets John Hughes . " Mystique ' s shapeshifting is n ' t quite perfect . Her eyes flare yellow if she loses her concentration , and she ca n ' t quite mimic the scent of others ( making her particularly vulnerable to Wolverine ' s sense of smell ) . After " Bobby Drake " convinces Rogue that she should leave the school , his eyes turn yellow , revealing that it was Mystique in disguise . This occurs again with a Statue of Liberty sculpture and Senator Kelly at the end of the movie . X2 : X - Men United : Mystique ca n ' t seem to hide the scars Wolverine left behind on her . Likewise , Stryker is n ' t fooled when she masquerades as Wolverine . One thing he knows better than anyone is his own work . X - Men : Days of Future Past : Mystique ' s irises briefly become yellow when she assumes the identity of a Secret Service agent and Major Stryker . Moreover , when she duplicates Bolivar Trask , she does n ' t get his face quite right . Bryan Singer acknowledges that Professor X " ... could go inside Cerebro and rule the world , but he chooses not to . " That being said , as much as he pushes for the equality of mutants and humans , Xavier is arrogant and he believes that he always knows what ' s best for someone and / or for the greater good , which leads to him occasionally abusing his psychic powers . He has no qualms briefly taking away an individual ' s free will with his Jedi Mind Tricks or " borrowing " them as a People Puppet , and he often reads the thoughts of others without asking for permission . Charles ' ambition does n ' t include turning the world into his personal playground , but his behaviour does prove that he " plays god " whenever the situation suits him . The power Cerebro grants him becomes a plot point in X - Men : Apocalypse , where Apocalypse empowers Charles to the level he is at while in Cerebro , and Charles becomes nearly omniscient . X2 : X - Men United : Invoked by Magneto , who is a mutant supremacist , when he informs the impressionable Pyro , " You ' re a god among insects . Never let anyone tell you different . " X - Men : Apocalypse : Inverted ; En Sabah Nur claims that the various deities worshipped throughout history were just different names for him . Apocalypse is so powerful that Hank essentially acknowledges that the former might as well be a supernatural being ( " It ' s all of us against a god " ) . Singer clarifies Apocalypse ' s " divine " status . " He ' s kind of more the God of the Old Testament , the vengeful God who wants the world in a certain order and wants to be worshipped — but he ' s also forgiving . " The Sentinels were programmed to hunt and destroy mutants among the non - mutant populace and they proved extremely effective in this task . However , they soon began targeting people who could potentially have mutant children and then those who might have mutant grandchildren . Eventually , they began wiping out the entire human race to fulfill their purpose . Bolivar Trask wanted to make the Sentinels to create peace , and got it , in the form of the apocalypse . The peace of the grave . Played for Laughs in the film ' s ending , where it ' s revealed that as a result of Wolverine ' s timeline meddling , Jean Grey no longer died in this new version of history . Unfortunately for Wolverine , this also means that Cyclops did n ' t die . Deadpool : Ajax ' s experiments on Wade succeed in creating a mutation that grants him a powerful Healing Factor , which is exactly what allows Wade to survive everything thrown at him while hunting Ajax down . Logan : Transigen wanted to create a Human Weapon successor to the Weapon X project . They got one , in the form of Laura . Who really , really does n ' t like her Reaver handlers , and tears through them like a human blender when they try to recapture her after her escape . Wolverine ' s fondness for cigars is part of his macho image . Although the writers wanted to present Xavier as a very different person when he was young man , they ca n ' t give him too many negative traits because the character is still the Big Good of the franchise , so one of his " good " flaws includes being a womanizer . Hank McCoy , who we learn in X - Men : The Last Stand is one of Charles ' closest friends ( and therefore his personality ca n ' t be changed too drastically ) , gets lack of self - confidence as one of his primary faults . X - Men : Days of Future Past : Past Xavier is no longer a cad like we saw in First Class , but he has developed additional " good " flaws such as alcoholism , drug addiction , cynicism , and cussing . The guy is utterly messed up , but the writer was careful not to make the character too " bad " ( Charles has to eventually become an All - Loving Hero , after all ) . X2 : X - Men United : When Dark Cerebro goes off , all the mutants in the world ( except for Magneto because of his helmet ) clutch their heads . X - Men : Days of Future Past : 1973 Charles does this when he misses a dose of his Power Nullifier serum . X - Men : Apocalypse : Professor X grasps his head when he ' s overwhelmed by Jean Grey ' s " dream " of an impending apocalypse . By the time of Logan , Charles has begun to succumb to Alzheimer ' s , and is prone to bouts of epileptic seizures which cause his powers to go out of control . The effect is similar to that of Dark Cerebro , and led to his accidentally killing the X - Men , and an unknown number of his students . He manages this with Logan ' s help via a number of medications . Deadpool punches Colossus in the crotch , only to break his hand trying.Deadpool : Cock - shot ! [ CLANG ! ] OW ! [ grabbing his hand , which is now limp and broken at the wrist ] Your poor wife ! Then he tries again with his other hand.Deadpool : [ holding up his limp hands ] All the dinosaurs feared the T. rex ... Logan : Bonebreakernote the Reaver with the Badass Beard , and usually shown wearing sunglasses and a white and blue bandanna around his neck pins Laura against a wall while trying to capture her during the fight at the smelting plant , and manages to catch her arm when she tries to stab him . Laura just kicks him in the balls . Fortunately for him she did n ' t use her foot claws . X - Men : Days of Future Past : 1973 Charles briefly reminisces about the first time he met Raven , which was a much happier and more innocent period of his life than his current state of abject misery and self - destruction . One notable difference between his memory of the event and what we saw in X - Men : First Class is that Charles as a kid did n ' t say , " And that ' s a promise " right after he told Raven that she would never have to steal again . Magneto recalls a couple of cherished moments that he had shared with Charles in 1962 . One line which was n ' t featured in First Class is Xavier telling him , " And it needs you , Erik . " When Charles restores the memories that he took away from Moira , there ' s greater emphasis on the cheerful times they had spent together . Storm is initially one of Apocalypse ' s Horsemen , but she switches sides during the battle once she sees Apocalypse nearly killing her idol , Mystique . Magneto also decides to go against Apocalypse thanks to a combination of a speech about family , courtesy of Mystique and Quicksilver , and remembering that Apocalypse ' s current target was ultimately his best friend . Wolverine is the best example as besides the X - Men body suit , he often wears a leather jacket . In the original trilogy , Cyclops is frequently seen with a black leather jacket . X2 : X - Men United : Mystique has a black leather jacket while seducing a guard . Past Xavier owns a brown leather jacket . Quicksilver is fond of his silver leather jacket . Deadpool : Negasonic Teenage Warhead ' s signature look includes a black leather jacket or long coat . Both Raven and Warren are dressed in a studded black leather jacket . Scott ' s leather jacket is mostly artichoke green with some blue on the front . Kurt ' s Thriller jacket is made out of red leather . However according to Simon Kinberg by the time of Dark Phoenix this is averted and the X - Men are a proactive superhero team . X - Men : First Class : Considering that Charles ' and Erik ' s friendship only lasted a few months , it was unusually intimate on an emotional level . Played straight with the elderly Magneto and Professor X ( the moment where they ' re holding hands is the closest that we ' ve seen them since First Class ) , but averted with their younger selves . In 1973 , Charles never once calls Erik " friend " ( although Erik uses the endearment twice ) , which goes to show how broken their relationship is . Hank and Charles are each other ' s Only Friend in between 1963 and 1973 , so it ' s inevitable that they would develop a very close bond . There are moments of non - verbal ( and non - telepathic ) communication between the two men , like when Xavier gently taps Beast on the chest after he mutters to Logan , " I think I ' d like to wake up now . " McCoy immediately understands that the gesture means , " You can calm down now , our visitor is not a threat , " and he reverts back to his human form . X - Men : Apocalypse : Charles and Hank retain their close friendship from Days of Future Past , and it ' s a lot healthier now because McCoy is no longer Xavier ' s enabler , and they ' ve ceased to be codependent . They also behave more like peers , as Hank is a teacher , and he has grown out of being needy of his former mentor ' s approval . X - Men : Professor X informs Logan that " Anonymity is a mutant ' s first chance against the world ' s hostility . " After Artie sticks out his dark , forked tongue at a girl who is eating ice cream , Storm chides him with " Not here . " At the museum ' s food court , Xavier admonishes Pyro for activating his fire - enhancing ability to play a prank on a rude young man.Professor X : The next time you feel like showing off , do n ' t . X - Men : The Last Stand : The film starts with a little Angel who tries to cut off his own wings in his desperation to be normal . Considering that he did successfully remove them , but he still has the wings as an adult , they must have kept growing back . X - Men Origins : Wolverine : A young Victor Creed folds his arms behind his back to hide his claw - like nails from John Howlett . X - Men : First Class : Fearful of humanity ' s negative reaction to mutants , Charles and Hank firmly live by this philosophy . Raven was initially influenced by her foster brother , but she has already grown frustrated with concealing her blue form in public when we first see her as an adult . Professor X tells Moira , " For us , anonymity will be the first line of defense . " X - Men : Days of Future Past : 1973 Magneto invokes this as he ' s shouting at Xavier , " Hiding , you and Hank , pretending to be something you ' re not ! " Beast in particular is very uncomfortable with his blue , furry form , and he creates a serum which temporarily suppresses his mutation so that he can appear human . In this universe , the concept of evolution is that people who are born with the X - gene will develop a random super ( natural ) power when they hit puberty or experience a very emotional event . Averted with Dr. Charles Xavier , who is stunningly attractive ... and is aware of it . In fact , in his first scene as a grown man , he is seen using nerd - talk to pick up coeds at an Oxford pub . X - Men : Days of Future Past : In his human form , McCoy is quite the Pretty Boy when he loses his Nerd Glasses near the end of the movie . This is further accentuated in The Rogue Cut when Raven removes Hank ' s eyewear in order to see his face more clearly , and she kisses him shortly afterwards . In the rare " Magneto the Survivor " featurette , First Class producer Simon Kinberg refers to Professor X ' s and Magneto ' s separation as a divorce when he discusses their older counterparts . James McAvoy called the movie a " love story " between Xavier and Magneto , even though , when pressed for clarification , he admitted they were not gay . The film certainly concentrated heavily on the two ' s relationship , and the final scene , in which the two split and their surrogate children chose sides , played out like a couple ' s divorce . Simon Kinberg has said that Apocalypse is the third chapter of a love story between Magneto and Professor X . " If First Class was Erik ' s story and Days of Future Past is Charles ' story , then Apocalypse will be both of their stories . The first movie was about Erik becoming empowered . That ' s the origin story of a man ' s power . Days of Future Past is about a guy who is a mess , masterminding the end of this massive movie . So they are both at their peak powers at the start of Apocalypse , so Apocalypse for me is the culmination of that three - act love story . " Kinberg later adds that when Erik calls Charles by his professor title for the first time in the movie series , it ' s a sign of respect and love which is greater than " old friend " because in the Alternate Timeline , Xavier is less pacifistic than in the original timeline.Simon Kinberg : ' I feel a great swell of pity for the poor soul looking for trouble . ' The way that James said that line , to me , it ' s almost a Magneto delivery . It ' s a threat . And there ' s a response from Fassbender where he gives a little smile . And the little smile to me , that I read that smile and Michael and I talked about that smile , the smile was Magneto understanding Charles has learnt my lesson . That ' s a militant Charles Xavier . Erik says , ' Good luck , professor . ' It ' s the first time he ever called Charles ' professor . ' And it sort of shows respect that I found it really beautiful that Michael said it subtly loving . While promoting Apocalypse at SDCC , James McAvoy summarized his charater ' s love - hate relationship with Erik ( and Michael Fassbender agrees ) .McAvoy : It ' s that thing in a love story where you do n ' t always like the person you ' re in love with , but you still love them . Charles and Erik always hated the way [ the other ] approached things . It ' s like , " Argh , he ' s always wanting to kill the humans ! He ' s always going about the same old shit , " and yet I just love the guy . I ca n ' t kill him , I do n ' t want to mind - control him , I love him . Fassbender : That ' s right . X - Men : Dr. Jean Grey is a medical doctor who is engaged to Scott Summers , and this does n ' t dissuade Logan in the slightest from pursuing her . The Wolverine : Dr. Green ( a.k.a . Viper ) is this according to Logan , who congratulates Yashida upon finding out she ' s his oncologist . Storm is an instructor at Xavier ' s School for Gifted Youngsters , and Nightcrawler thinks she ' s beautiful . They have a Ship Tease in X2 : X - Men United . Wolverine , who is the ultimate Chick Magnet of the franchise , joins the academy ' s staff in X - Men : The Last Stand . Revealed to be a history teacher in the new timeline created in X - Men : Days of Future Past . X - Men Origins : Wolverine : Kayla Silverfox , Logan ' s girlfriend , is a teacher at a children ' s school . X - Men : Apocalypse , Professor Xavier apparently thinks it ' s okay for him to wear a translucent white shirt while teaching a class filled with hormonal teenagers . It ' s the first time in the franchise where his character is mildly objectified , and it ' s a progression from his Hot Scientist days in X - Men : First Class . X - Men : First Class : Who knew that Charles Xavier was a charming , Pretty Boy cad or that Erik Lenhnsherr was a brooding , Tall , Dark , and Handsome " bad boy " during their youth ? This film also provides the most scantily - clad females in the entire franchise . Deadpool : With its R - rating , it contains a lot more nudity and sexual situations than any other X - Men film . Played with as a motif for the series . The humans for the most part are shown to be intolerant and hateful of mutants ( with some like Col. Stryker going that extra mile to make things a living hell for mutants ) , wishing they could eradicate their kind , while mutants themselves do n ' t want to harm anyone and just live peacefully among humans . Professor X tries to bridge this gap and be a goodwill ambassador on behalf of mutantkind , hoping humanity will lower their guard and learn tolerance while Magneto loathes humanity and wants mutants to use their higher abilities to step over these hateful beings and become the one true inheritor of the planet . However , his methods are often excessive and definitely give good pause to humankind ' s fear and shunning of mutants , so he ' s not helping his case . And of course , there are those mutants like Sebastian Shaw who genuinely are evil and destructive , caring not for humans or even fellow mutants ( regardless of what rhetoric they try to convey ) . Wolverine ' s adamantium skeleton is the result of Colonel William Stryker trying to turn Logan into a military weapon , as shown in X - Men Origins : Wolverine . This ended up backfiring when Logan overheard them talking about wiping his mind and broke free . So he used Wade Wilson ' s body instead . In X2 : X - Men United , Stryker has turned various other mutants , such as Lady Deathstrike , into his personal foot soldiers , using a mind control serum harvested from his own psychic son to control them . In Logan , Dr. Zander Rice has been performing illegal experiments on child mutants cloned from earlier specimens , including X - 23 , Logan ' s daughter . They tried killing them all off when they decided the experiment had run its course , which caused all of them to escape from Transigen . X - Men : Magneto is willing to sacrifice Rogue , but not himself in the advancement of his cause . Beautifully called out by Wolverine , who tells him : " You ' re so full of shit . If you were really so righteous , it would be you up in that thing . " The biggest irony of that is , if he had been willing to sacrifice himself , the plan would have worked . X - Men : First Class : Despite claiming to be out - and - proud about all mutations , Raven does n ' t want her brother reading or touching her mind in any way , even if that means just innately brushing up against it . Mutations are fine , so long as they ' re not telepathy or any other mind / emotion - reading gift . Her objection juxtaposes Hank ' s attitude , who never once tells Xavier not to read his mind even though McCoy had met Charles 18 years after Raven . At the climax , Magneto ' s past self has his most blatant moment of hypocrisy in the entire film series . After all the bravado both before and after about protecting mutantkind , he deliberately pits a Sentinel against Wolverine and Beast , ordering it to " do what you were made for . " In the plane , Erik calls Xavier out for abandoning the mutants out there to be killed or experimented on . Given how First Class ends , Xavier can reasonably say that Beast , Havok , Banshee and himself ( who was newly shot in the spine ) could have easily ended up as guinea pigs for either the US or the Soviet Union because Magneto left them stranded in Cuba with no transportation . In one of the TV spots for X - Men Origins : Wolverine , Sabretooth utters this chilling line . " I ' m not your friend ... I ' m an animal who dreamed he was a man . But the dream is over ... and the beast is awake . And I will come for you , because it ' s my nature . " This is either a Shout - Out or a ripoff of Seth Brundle ' s " insect politics " speech , which itself is an homage to the Japanese poem , " I dreamed I was a butterfly , flitting around in the sky ; then I awoke . Now I wonder : Am I a man who dreamt of being a butterfly , or am I a butterfly dreaming that I am a man ? " X - Men : First Class : Erik Lehnsherr calls himself Frankenstein ' s Monster , believing that it was Sebastian Shaw ' s ( whom he views as his " creator " ) experiments which turned him into a freak of nature . Charles Xavier was boyishly beautiful during his youth with thick , wavy hair ( not that he looks bad as a bald , older gentleman ) . Erik Lehnsherr was a classic example of Tall , Dark , and Handsome when he was a young man ( and he has aged gracefully over the years ) . Hank McCoy used to be Adorkable before his Beast transformation . Major William Stryker was a Hunk when he was younger . Nightcrawler was an elfin cutie pie during his adolescence . When people think of the X - Men movies , the two things that really represent the entire series is Cerebro , the Giant Dome - shaped room ( not surprising since it ' s featured prominently in the first two X - Men movies ) , and likewise Magneto ' s Plastic Prison . Magneto ' s eyes are quite a striking blue , which is a good match for his rather cold - hearted view on things . X - Men : Apocalypse : Professor X ' s steely gaze when he looks directly at the camera is the very last shot of the movie . It ' s unique and significant for the character because James McAvoy ' s iteration either has Innocent Blue Eyes or expresses that he ' s in excruciating pain due to a Break the Cutie ordeal or being a Broken Bird . It hints that McAvoy ' s Xavier is tougher than Patrick Stewart ' s in the original timeline because the former had undergone horrific torture by Apocalypse , and is nearly murdered by him , and what does n ' t kill you only makes you stronger . Charles had already fallen apart at the seams once before , and he refuses to do this again even though the hell he was forced to endure in this film is much worse , so the fierce determination in his eyes is a warning that no one should mess with him or his X - Men . Sebastian Shaw originally used a special helmet that prevents psychic mutants from reading his mind or taking it over . Sure enough , as soon as he loses it in the climax he ' s finished . This same helmet is later adopted by Magneto , who uses it on multiple occasions throughout the series , particularly against his former partner Professor Xavier . The relationship between Magneto and Mystique is a little vague . Sebastian Shaw and Emma Frost ; his term of endearment for her is " love , " and he calls her " the most exquisite thing I ' ve ever seen in my life . " There ' s also this line : Emma Frost : If that telepath gets inside your head , he wo n ' t be as much fun as I am . Charles and Moira may have developed a romance while he was recovering from his injury because he kisses her at the end . Much like The Last Stand , it ' s left rather vague whether or not Bobby and Kitty had anything going on . The Rogue Cut makes it explicit because they kiss twice . Come Cosmic Retcon , Bobby is back to being in a relationship with Rogue . Kitty and Colossus co - teaching a class may mean something between them as well . Erik and Raven . When she ' s holding a spike to his throat , he just quips , " It ' s been a while since we were this close . " There is also a hint when Charles asks Erik for the second time , " How is she [ Raven ] ? " , and Charles ' facial expression when he hears the answer reads , " Oh , god , he has slept with my sister . " In the " Double Take : Xavier & Magneto " featurette on the Blu - Ray release , Michael Fassbender mentions that his character is " ... very close to Mystique , he has very strong feelings for her . " On one of the commentaries of The Rogue Cut , Bryan Singer states matter - of - factly that Erik was Mystique ' s lover . While deviations are to be expected in adaptations , certain characters ( especially in The Last Stand ) are absolutely nothing like their comic book counterparts . Callisto , Kid Omega , Psylocke , Agent Zero , and Origin ' s version of Deadpool are among the most drastic examples . First Class does little better . While at least keeping the powers of most of the cast and a few elements of their personality , most of the mutants bare little resemblance to their comic counterparts . Havoknote Scott ' s younger brother in the comics , here depicted too old for that to be possible , and a Jerk Jock soldier , Angel Salvadorenote a troubled - though - well meaning Hispanic 14 - year - old mother in the comics , here a much older Ambiguously Brown stripper who turns evil , Azazelnote a half - demon immortal warlord trapped in another dimension with a handful of powers , here an evil Renegade Russian Nightcrawler reskin , and even Mystiquenote a sociopathic , morally myopic , bisexual Dark Action Girl and frequent leader of various Brotherhood of Mutants teams , here Xavier ' s troubled sister who struggles with self - esteem issues thanks to her powers , despite being in the previous movies , are probably the best examples . X - Men : Days of Future Past : The younger Xavier is a shadow of his former self and hides from the outside world after he loses the people he loves , his Only Friend is a " beast , " he lets his hair grow long and has a Beard of Sorrow ... which is the same state Logan was in at beginning of The Wolverine . Both characters reject being addressed by their title / codename . X - Men : Apocalypse : A flannel - wearing Erik trying to live a normal life and working at a labour - intensive job brings to mind a flannel - wearing , lumberjack Logan in X - Men Origins : Wolverine . They have n ' t been actively involved in any mutant issues in years , but they are pulled back into the conflict after they lose a loved one . Government - related parts aside ( that being a common thing for the superhero genre ) , it honestly feels like the first two movies spend more time talking about how much normal humans hate and fear mutants than actually showing it . This is somewhat remedied in The Last Stand , but still nothing like the comics . X - Men : Professor X asks Magneto " Why do you come here ? " , referring to the Mutant Registration Act hearings ; Magneto replies " Why do you ask questions to which you already know the answer ? " The roles are reversed at the end when Erik is in prison and Charles comes to visit him . " First , I ' m going to count to three . Then , you ' re / I ' m going to move the coin . " " Just following orders . " X - Men : Days of Future Past : Wolverine ' s initial attempts to recruit Charles to help him ends with Charles recognizing Logan and telling him to " fuck off . " X - Men : Apocalypse : When Professor X uses Cerebro to locate Magneto , Apocalypse takes the opportunity to take control of Charles ; later , after Apocalypse has tried his Grand Theft Me ritual on Xavier , Charles takes the opportunity to get inside Apocalypse ' s head.Apocalypse / Charles Xavier : Thank you for letting me in . X - Men : When examining Wolverine ' s X - rays scans , Jean informs everyone about his adamantium - covered skeleton , and Xavier ominously says , " Experimentation on mutants is n ' t unheard of , but I ' ve never seen anything like this before ... " X - Men : Days of Future Past : The following quote is especially horrifying because it ' s coming from Wolverine , whose Bad Future self is 191 years old and has witnessed more atrocities in his life than most normal people could possibly imagine.Logan : I ' ve been in a lot of wars ... but I ' ve never seen anything like this ... Wolverine gets a lot of screen time , just like in the comics . Magneto likes to point this out in the original trilogy : " Once again , you think it ' s all about you . " We get the following exchange between Charles and a girl he meets at a bar named Amy : Raven and Hank tend to giggle when they ' re around each other , and they eventually kiss . In an interesting twist , their actors also dated for a while . In Deadpool , Vanessa and Wade tend to do this when they ' re enjoying spending time together , particularly during sex . Vanessa also laughs quietly when she says that she ' ll get used to Wade ' s scarred appearance at the end of the film . In the original trilogy , Mystique has a particularly exotic one that lets you know when it ' s really her . Erik has a brooding guitar theme . If you ' ve made an enemy of him and it kicks in , things are about to get unpleasant for you . When listening to the complete score on the Blu - Ray release , Charles is associated with a simple orchestral violin melody which gradually evolves into the X - Men : First Class theme . This makes perfect sense because he ' s the leader of the group . " Rage and Serenity " is actually a combination of Charles ' and Erik ' s themes . Raven ' s scenes are usually accompanied by a piano tune . Schmidt / Shaw plays a record of Edith Piaf singing La vie en rose as an establishing motif in 1944 and 1962 . Composer John Ottman elaborates on Professor X ' s theme in this interview.Radio host : We talked about Xavier ' s theme which almost acts as the central theme for the film because his story is so important , and it hovers around him . Since the film is about hope , and his character is about hope and rediscovering his hope , kind of a lost soul , where did you really draw the music from [ ... ] ? John Ottman : [ ... ] I knew what the character ' s challenge was , what the film was about , so I tried to create a piece of music or a theme that could play both sides , sort of despondent and tortured , but also be designed so that it can be hopeful as it evolves later in the movie . I started sketching on an electric piano , and it sounded so cool and vintage [ ... ] . Early in the movie , when it ' s just very subtly underscoring him , it ' s a lot of electric piano within the strings . In this featurette , Ottman brings up Magneto ' s theme.John Ottman : Magneto ' s theme is a very simple " baauum baaaaw . " That ' s basically it , it ' s so simple you can identify with it and feel it . [ ... ] When he does his stuff at the end and you hear that big sound , it ' s bigger than it ever was before , and it ties things together . Professor X is primarily the Charismatic type . He ' s The Heart of the X - Men ; the love , admiration and respect that his students and friends feel for him are what mainly holds the team together . Bryan Singer has said many times that Apocalypse ' s greatest non - superpower skill is persuasion , so he falls under the Charismatic category . Mystique is a reluctant field leader of the X - Men because she ' s used to working on her own , and she ' s of the Headstrong variety . She ' s outspoken , determined and courageous . Scott takes the initiative when he , Jean and Kurt decide that they should try to save Hank , Raven , Peter and Moira from Stryker . Cyclops is the Levelheaded type because he ' s always thinking about the best strategy to circumvent whatever obstacles they encounter . Deadpool : Although Weasel is n ' t aware he ' s in a film like Wade post - mutation , he still comments at one point " Deadpool , sounds like a fucking franchise . " He also earlier states , when referring Wade to the Recruiter , " You should talk to him , it might advance the plot . " X - Men : Apocalypse : The passage from The Once and Future King that Professor X reads to his class is : " The past must be obliterated and the new start made . Let us now start fresh without remembrance rather than live forward and backward at the same time . " For the audience , the underlying message is that we should ignore the Ret Gone original timeline of the X - Men movie series and focus on its Alternate Timeline . Xavier invokes this trope when speaking to Logan in X - Men : The Last Stand with regards to the psychic blocks he placed over the Phoenix without Jean Grey ' s knowledge or consent.Professor X : I had a terrible choice to make ; I chose the lesser of two evils . X - Men : First Class : Emma Frost is clad in white and can turn her body into a mass of shining diamonds , but she has no discernible morals . X - Men : Apocalypse : Archangel with his angelic motif and being a Horseman of Apocalypse . X - Men : First Class : Charles and Raven grew up together as foster siblings for 18 years , and he introduces her as his sister to Amy . He later cites this when Raven , feeling insecure about her looks , asks if he would date her ... although it falls a little flat coming right after he ' s answered the question with " of course " in reference to her human form , before she clarifies that she means in her real form . X - Men : Days of Future Past : Lampshaded by the older Professor X when he mentions that Mystique was like a sister to him . It ' s later alluded to when a nurse wonders if the blue , scaly woman at the Paris Peace Accords has a family , and Raven replies , " Yes , she does . " On the plane ride to Paris , Charles argues that he had raised Raven to be something better than a killer . Erik is quick to point out that Charles did n ' t raise Raven , they grew up together . This is what it takes for Xavier to realize that Raven is not his to control . X - Men : Apocalypse : Mystique tells Magneto , " I ' m going to go fight for what I have left , " which specifically refers to her foster brother Charles . Although Charles grew up resenting his mother ' s Parental Neglect , he nevertheless shares some traits in common with her . He picked up her posh English accent , her genteel mannerisms , her vanity , and he ' s so proud of his English heritage that he had spent several years studying at Oxford University . His heavy drinking in X - Men : Days of Future Past is a Mythology Gag to Sharon Xavier ' s alcoholism in the comics . X - Men : First Class : To avert World War III , Charles forces the Russians to fire on their own transport ship ; neither side knows that the crew is already dead . Azazel is at the helm and lets out a short " nyet " before teleporting away just before the missile hits . When Charles senses Peter ' s and Raven ' s imminent executions at Apocalypse ' s hands , and especially the latter ' s suffocation , he sobs one when Moira tells him he ca n ' t sacrifice himself for them without dooming the world as well . Erik also murmurs several of these while holding his wife and daughter after they are accidentally killed by a Polish policeman . In X - Men : Days of Future Past , Hank is this to the dispirited Charles ; the latter is so desperate to escape from his mental pain that he would most likely have died from alcohol poisoning if McCoy was n ' t around to supervise him . But it works the other way around , too , as the approval - seeking Hank has voluntarily suppressed his individuality ( i.e . he has no career , hobby , or social life ) just to attend to Xavier ' s needs 24 / 7 , and is thus defining himself exclusively through his dutiful service to his ex - mentor . These are strong indicators that they are both trapped in an unhealthy codependent relationship . X - Men : Days of Future Past : The future Sentinels exploit several logical weaknesses in their battles with the future X - Men . They deliberately focus firepower on Bishop and force - feed him so much energy that it overloads him , use extreme heat and fire to negate Iceman ' s powers , and after all the other X - Men are dealt with , they focus on swarming Blink , attacking her from so many angles that she ca n ' t think to make portals fast enough . They ' re also made of an advanced polymer , meaning Magneto has to fall back on using outside sources of metal to fight them , making it easier for them to take him on . X - Men : Apocalypse : Jean Grey ' s Jedi Mind Trick is useless against security cameras . No matter how powerful the psychic , it does n ' t matter against something that does n ' t have a mind . The original trilogy features the " X " in the 20th Century Fox logo fading out a fraction of a second later than the rest of the logo . X - Men : We have a vaguely - defined province , country example with " Northern Alberta , Canada . " X - Men Origins : Wolverine : A variation with territory and country listed occurs in the case of " Northwest Territories , Canada . " The American writers clearly did n ' t do their research because a portion of this region did n ' t enter the Canadian Confederation until 1870 ( and the other sections were later divided up into separate provinces and territories over the next few decades ) , so in 1845 , it should ' ve been referred to as " North - Western Territory , British North America . " James Howlett and Victor Creed were therefore born as British citizens ( although presumably it would ' ve been easy for them to obtain Canadian citizenship after the Dominion of Canada was founded in 1867 ) . " Geneva , Switzerland , " " Villa Gesell , Argentina " and " Moscow , Russia . " ( In 1962 , it should have been called " Moscow , USSR , " as Russia was only a Republic within the Soviet Union . ) A variation which features a specific location and country is " Oxford University , England " ( the correct term is the formal " University of Oxford " ) . X - Men : Days of Future Past : Surprisingly averted . The cities of " Moscow , " " Saigon " and " Paris " are listed without the corresponding country . The lovely Charles proudly styles his luscious tresses into a feathered mullet . In essence , he combines his prettiness from X - Men : First Class with his long , wavy mane from X - Men : Days of Future Past ( but updated to an ' 80s hairdo ) . This is the character at his most vain because he revels in being beautiful and flaunts it . Apocalypse also plays up Xavier ' s nurturing qualities , so long hair ( which is generally associated with femininity ) denotes his androgynous mindset . His lips are a deep magenta instead of cherry - red like in First Class , and their rosy shade matches with his lilac shirt . For viewers who had never seen an X - Men movie before , there is absolutely no doubt that Professor X is In Touch with His Feminine Side based on his physical appearance . In X - Men : Days of Future Past , Past Xavier is the central figure , and he has been a totally unproductive member of society in between 1963 and 1973 because he ' s clinically depressed . He ' s a heavy drinker and substance abuser . X2 : X - Men United : William Stryker kidnaps Professor X in order to force the latter to commit genocide against mutants . Once Magneto gains the upper - hand , he modifies the settings of Dark Cerebro so that it targets humans instead . X - Men : First Class : Sebastian Shaw wants Xavier to join the Hellfire Club because the latter is a more advanced telepath than Shaw ' s Dragon Emma Frost . X - Men : Apocalypse : The titular villain desires Charles ' ability for his own because it ' s " the answer " to Apocalypse ' s quest for divinity.Apocalypse : For the first time in a thousand lifetimes , I have you . For all my gifts , I have yet to possess the one I needed most . To be everywhere . To be everyone . The core message of X - Men : Apocalypse is that ruling through love ( as represented by Professor X ) is more effective than ruling through fear ( as personified by Apocalypse ) because the former inspires loyalty while the latter encourages betrayal . The X - Men win the Final Battle because they ' re united , unlike Apocalypse , who has no one on his side in the end . This even forms the basis of Charles ' Badass Boast when Apocalypse is about to " crush " his mind.Xavier : You will never win . Apocalypse : And why is that ? Xavier : Because you ' re alone , and I am NOT ! Made of adamantium to be exact in the case of Wolverine . Also , the Juggernaut and Mystique are really hard to kill . Played straight with Wolverine as Phoenix ' s attacks destroy all the rest of his clothes , as well as skin and muscle , but his pants remain . The same thing happens in The Wolverine when he shields Ichiro after the atomic bomb is dropped . Professor X is exceptionally charismatic because he ' s gifted with the uncanny skill to influence people ( without the use of his psychic ability ) who hardly know him to risk their lives for him and / or uphold his philosophy against his enemies . In the time span of no more than a year ( with some breaks , as Logan was digging around for his past at Alkali Lake , and later was " passing through " ) , Wolverine goes from mocking the Professor ' s paraplegia ( " What do they call you , Wheels ? " ) to being " tamed " by him . In X - Men : First Class , Charles is a very attentive and earnest coach who is able to shape the adolescent Ragtag Bunch of Misfits that he has recruited into an effective paramilitary group within a short period of time , and his new team is strong enough to withstand the more experienced Hellfire Club . In X - Men : Apocalypse , Cyclops , Quicksilver and Nightcrawler endanger themselves to rescue Xavier , whom they had only met once ( or in the case of Kurt , he did n ' t even get the chance to talk to the Professor before the latter was captured ) , and they all elect to become full - fledged members of the X - Men . An Xavier student in X2 ( implied to be Siryn ) , and Banshee ( who is Siryn ' s father in the comics ) in First Class . In X - Men : Apocalypse , the way the camera moves when we first see Mystique in her cleavage - exposing dress evokes this . X - Men : Days of Future Past : The younger Charles rejects all adult responsibilities after he succumbs to depression , and McCoy has to look after him . X - Men : Apocalypse : At the age of 27 , Quicksilver still is n ' t an independent adult because he continues to reside in his mother ' s basement , although his living space is a lot less cluttered than it was in Days of Future Past , which implies that his kleptomania has toned down in the past decade . He cracks a joke about his mother wanting him to get out of the house , and Peter acknowledges his Basement - Dweller status on the X - Jet . When Scott realizes that he has no way to save Jean , he cries and begs her not to do it . Both Charles Xavier and Erik Lehnsherr do this in a rather touching scene where the latter is learning to control his powers through something other than rage . By telepathically finding one of Erik ' s happiest childhood memories , Charles helps him to see that true focus lies between " rage and serenity . " Cue the tears as they both experience a bittersweet memory of Erik ' s long - dead mother on welcoming in their Sabbath . After Charles gets shot , there is a particularly heartbreaking moment when he has to tell Erik that no , they do not want the same things when it comes to mutants and humans . Cue the Manly Tears on his part . It ' s an indicator of how the two men have grown apart that Erik ' s face just blanks of emotion in response . Erik openly sobs when he cradles his wife ' s and daughter ' s lifeless bodies . Professor X sheds a tear while he ' s using Cerebro to communicate with Magneto because he ' s able to feel the latter ' s grief over the deaths of Magda and Nina . Scott weeps when he learns that his brother Alex is dead . Mystique ' s default normal human form in the original trilogy is ... Rebecca Romijn . In First Class , it ' s Jennifer Lawrence . But when Magneto says he might sleep with her " in a few years , " she briefly becomes Romijn . A foster siblings variation with Raven and Charles in X - Men : Apocalypse . Both are mutant activists , but they use different methods when saving the world one mutant life at a time — the sister is more " active " and the brother is more " passive . " Mystique is a forthright Action Girl who travels around the globe and regularly employs violence to free mutants who are in physical danger ; she tells Caliban that she does n ' t care what they do with their newfound liberty . Professor Xavier , on the other hand , is a sweet Non - Action Guy who remains at his home / school and coaches his mutant students on how to master their inherently hazardous abilities so that they ' re no longer a threat to themselves or to others , while at the same time nurturing them as individuals . In the final scene , Raven assumes a stern , no - nonsense approach when training the X - Men for combat , whereas Charles will continue to educate their minds and provide emotional support . Between two movies , highlighting the difference between the Xavier School and Magneto ' s views on mutants . In a deleted scene from the first movie , Bobby asks Rogue her name , she says " Rogue , " and he says " What ' s your real name ? " She tells him " Marie . " Then in X2 , on the plane , Magneto has a conversation with Pyro : Magneto : What ' s your name ? Pyro : John . Magneto : What ' s your real name , John ? Pyro : Pyro . Charles and Erik exchange numerous glances throughout the movie , which are indicative of their closeness . After Raven insinuates that Alex ' s manhood may be small in response to the latter ' s mocking of Hank ' s feet , Raven and Hank look at each other ; the former silently says , " I ' m on your side , " while the latter quietly expresses his gratitude . Kitty Pryde and Bobby Drake share one as they cross paths during their battle against the Sentinels , and this may allude to them being in a relationship . Mystique , disguised as a colonel , winks at Alex in a reassuring manner which says , " Do n ' t worry , I ' ll get you out of this . " Alex is unaware that the colonel is his former friend , though , so the wink confuses him . Hank and Charles exchange an amused " Why am I not surprised ? " glance ( the former even adds a raised eyebrow ) after Peter Maximoff asks them , " I saw your flight plan in the cockpit ; why are you going to Paris ? " X - Men : Apocalypse : Alex , who is mortified by his ex - mentor ' s prolonged ogling of Moira , calls out to the Professor and silently conveys with his eyes , " You ' re here to ask her about Cairo , remember ? " , which finally snaps Charles out of his reverie . Wolverine was born as James Howlett ; his surname is a nod to his animalistic nature . Professor X ' s middle name and surname form the name of a saint ( Francis Xavier ) , so they hint at the character ' s " saintly " personality . Erik means " ruler " and Lehnsherr can be roughly translated as " feudal lord " ( lehn = fief , herr = master ) . Magneto ' s birth name betrays his ambition to rule over humans . Raven Darkholme . When de - powered in X - Men : The Last Stand , she ' s seen with Raven Hair , Ivory Skin . Warren Worthington III ' s code name Angel refers to his angelic looks , which include large , white wings and blond curls . ( This applies to both Ben Foster ' s and Ben Hardy ' s portrayals . ) In the case of the latter , he becomes Apocalypse ' s " angel of death " in X - Men : Apocalypse.Ben Hardy : Angel is pretty angry , and he casts a shadow of death across the land . Remy must be handsome , because his last name ( LeBeau ) directly translates as the masculine form of " The beautiful . " Emma Frost has a frosty temperament , as her surname suggests . Viper ' s alias as Yashida ' s doctor is " Green , " and she frequently wears green clothing . " Viper " also alludes to the classic fable " The Farmer and the Viper " , which perfectly describes Logan ' s relationship with her master . In Real Life , En Sabah Nur means " The morning light " ( he represents the dawn of mutantkind ) , but the comics translate it as " The first one . " It ' s no accident that Jubilee ' s given name is Jubilation because she carries a sunny disposition . James McAvoy was asked in this interview to boil down his character to only three essential elements , and the actor answered , " Empathetic , generous , and slightly suffering from a messianic complex . [ ... ] He thinks he ' s the Second Coming of Christ , he thinks he ' s gon na save the world . " In 1973 , Charles ' neglect of his mansion is a reflection of how utterly forlorn he is . His bedroom and study are extremely cluttered , plus the grass on his estate is overgrown . Hank does his best to clean up some of the mess that Xavier carelessly leaves behind ( at one point we see McCoy picking up empty liquor bottles ) . 1973 Charles does n ' t bother with his grooming because he ' s too depressed to care . X - Men : The X - Men pass through one of these while entering a museum . Wolverine , naturally , sets it off , and then destroys it . When Logan is scanned by Ichirō ' s security guards , he explains away the constant beeping of their devices as his hip replacement . Logan requests a pat - down rather than have to deal with the inevitable difficulties that would arise from trying to go through one of these at the airport . X - Men : Days of Future Past : There is one on the White House lawn ; it beeps when Xavier passes through because of his wheelchair , and when it ' s Wolverine ' s turn ... nothing happens because his 1973 body is adamantium - free . X - Men : Days of Future Past : When Charles was in between 9 and 12 years old , he was Hearing Voices and was n ' t aware that he was telepathic , so he had assumed that he was going mad from an acute mental illness . His past self in is so broken that it ' s torture for him to be bombarded by the thoughts of others , and he uses a serum designed by Hank to block out the ceaseless " chatter " in his head . In order to visit his future self , Xavier has to go through Wolverine ' s mind , which is full of traumatic memories ; it ' s a pretty shocking experience for him . Likewise , when he attempts to use Cerebro , all he can sense is people crying out all over the world in loneliness and pain . X - Men : Apocalypse : Jean loathes being " trapped inside [ her ] own head " because of her telepathy , and Xavier understands her anguish because he was also haunted by other people ' s suffering , pain and secrets in the past . When Scott asks Jean , " How do you know what [ Alex ] felt ? " , her face is somber when she gloomily replies , " I know how everybody feels . " Professor X momentarily stuns Apocalypse on the astral plane by letting his enemy hear the inner voices of hundreds of minds that are within Charles ' psychic range . Jean Grey has similar rules as Professor X because he ' s her mentor . X - Men : First Class : The much younger , less disciplined Xavier had no problem using his powers on anyone whenever it was convenient for him . That being said , he did promise Raven that he would n ' t read her mind , and he did ask for Erik ' s permission before searching for the brightest corner of his friend ' s memory system . X - Men starts with Magneto as a boy in a concentration camp . X - Men : The Last Stand begins with a middle - aged Professor X and Magneto visiting Jean Grey as a child . We also see a young Warren Worthington III . X - Men Origins : Wolverine starts with Wolverine and Sabretooth as children . X - Men : First Class begins with Charles Xavier and Raven Darkholme as children , and recaps a young Erik Lehnsherr in the concentration camp . This is Charles ' journey throughout the First Class trilogy ; he must suffer a great deal in order to gain the necessary experience and wisdom to become an effective leader of mutants . When his life runs smoothly for too long , he can get complacent and fail to recognize that he ' s being harmfully paternalistic ( such as his overprotectiveness towards Raven ) , or he does n ' t anticipate a looming threat before it ' s too late ( despite Hank ' s insistence , Xavier does n ' t believe that the X - Men is required after the events of 1973 ) . Because the hardships he had to endure in the Alternate Timeline are different than in the original timeline , his Icy Blue Eyes at the end of X - Men : Apocalypse indicate that James McAvoy ' s Professor X will be more resilient and proactive . Deadpool : Negasonic Teenage Warhead asks her mentor Colossus what the perks of being with the X - Men are , considering the mansion gets completely destroyed every couple of years . Colossus then cheerfully responds that " House blowing up builds character . " X - Men : First Class : When the proto X - Men clash against the Hellfire Club , Charles stays by the wreckage of the Blackbird and orders Raven to guard him . He ' s the only mutant who can restrain Sebastian Shaw ( psychically or otherwise ) , so it ' s imperative for the mission that Xavier survives . He also gives instructions to Erik as the latter searches for their target . X - Men : Days of Future Past : In The Rogue Cut , the older Professor X telepathically guides Magneto and Iceman through the mansion ' s secret corridors from the relative safety of the X - Jet . En Sabah Nur is the world ' s first mutant and the most powerful one . Over the millennia , he accumulates the abilities of all of his mutant hosts , so he ' s virtually god - like . X - Men : First Class opens with Erik losing his parents in the Holocaust while Charles gains a foster sister in his comfy estate . By X - Men : Days of Future Past , Magneto has lost four members of his Brotherhood to Dr. Bolivar Trask ' s medical experiments and ends up stuck in jail , while Xavier has lost only one student to Trask and still maintains his mansion . Played for Drama in X - Men : Apocalypse , where after Erik ' s wife and daughter are killed while Professor X teaches at his prosperous school , Lehnsherr screams towards the heavens in agony , asking God why He always seems to take the people he ' s closest to . The X - Men suffers one casualty . X - Men Origins : Wolverine : Wade Wilson . Stryker thinks it ' s his worst feature . X - Men : Days of Future Past : Quicksilver talks as fast as he ... just about everything else . And good luck shutting him up . X - Men : Producer Tom DeSanto thought about the original costumes , but eventually decided they would look silly and changed to leather ones ( something Stan Lee and Chris Claremont approved ) . Lauren Shuler Donner added that the costumes helped the X - Men " blend into the night . " X - Men : First Class : Averted ; the 1960s founding members of the team wear blue and yellow combat uniforms which are similar to their first appearance in the ' 60s comics . The Wolverine : There were plans for Wolverine ' s yellow costume and mask to make a Cameo appearance , but this was scrapped . The scene can be seen in the alternate ending on the Blu - Ray . Averted in Deadpool . The title character wears his trademark red costume from the comics , and Negasonic Teenage Warhead wears a yellow X - Men uniform that looks like a modernized take on the outfits from First Class . The two main villains are even mocked for playing this straight . Played straight with the X - Men , who don battle versions of the original trilogy ' s black outfits . Ditto for Storm , whose Horseman armour is mostly black with a few silver highlights . Later averted with the second set of uniforms , ◊ which still contain some black , but it ' s no longer the primary colour . X2 : X - Men United : Colossus spends most of his screen time running around shirtless . X - Men : The Last Stand : Warren is bare - chested in one scene . Logan reluctantly takes a bath as he is vigorously scrubbed by two female attendants , so much of his skin is on display . Noburo Mori is in nice shape and gets an underwear scene . X - Men : Days of Future Past provides a nude Wolverine and a shirtless young Magneto . Deadpool : Before Wade is disfigured , he ' s naked eye candy during his bed scenes . Oscar Isaac is covered only in a loincloth when he ' s lying on a slab during an Ancient Egyptian ceremony . Angel is shirtless when Apocalypse tries to recruit him . X - Men : First Class : All of the women ( Mystique , Angel , Emma and Moira ) get at least one scene where they ' re wearing little or nothing . For Emma and Angel , it ' s their regular attire . Viper ' s wardrobe is made up solely of skin - tight garments . Jean Grey is only seen in a low - cut silk nightgown . Deadpool : Vanessa is naked during her bed scenes with Wade , and she wears a skimpy outfit while working as a waitress at a strip club . Mystique is in a very low - cut , skin - tight outfit when she ' s at the East Berlin fight club . Psylocke ' s Horseman attire◊ displays a fair amount of her skin . X2 : X - Men United : When Logan wants a cold drink , he gives a Dr. Pepper to Bobby " Iceman , " who uses his powers to chill it . X - Men Origins : Wolverine : Bradley , who can power electrics , has a job as a carney after he quits Team X . " Turn the light off , get a prize . Three tries for a buck . " X - Men : First Class : Shaw orders Emma Frost to use her ability to turn into a diamond to chip off an ice cube for his drink . Quicksilver uses his super speed to play ping - pong with himself . Magneto uses his metal - controlling powers to stitch his head wound and to raise the volume control knob on the television set . Although Charles is Raven ' s foster brother in X - Men : First Class , he tends to behave more like her Parental Substitute ( this is confirmed in X - Men : Days of Future Past when he tells Erik that he had " raised " her ) . Xavier is so overprotective of his sister that it had stifled Raven ' s psychological growth as an adult , and she resents his pushiness to the point where they become estranged . Erik reminds Charles that the latter " ... grew up with her . She could n ' t stay a little girl forever , that ' s why she left . " By the end of Days of Future Past , Xavier finally accepts that Raven is her own person and stops trying to influence her . In a more general sense , Professor X does n ' t encourage those who are closest to him to be fully independent as adults . Although most of his students eventually leave the school after graduation and assimilate into human society , those who are part of the X - Men never " leave the nest , " so to speak . They stay together as a surrogate family while living under Xavier ' s roof , working as teachers , and Charles continues to exert his paternal authority over them even when they ' re roughly 57 years old ( as shown with Jean Grey , Cyclops and Storm in the Alternate Timeline 2023 scene of Days of Future Past — heck , Beast would be around 80 ! ) . X - Men : Apocalypse : Although Xavier is wiser in the Alternate Timeline and knows that he should n ' t " cage the beast " when it comes to the Phoenix , he still keeps his daughter figure Jean on a tight leash by the way he nurtures her . His goal is to placate as much as possible the " fire " within her before it consumes everything and everyone in its path . To borrow a theme from First Class , Charles carefully molds the emotional comfort he offers to Jean as the " serenity " which can quell to some degree the " rage " of her wild " flames . " His manipulation of her is so well - crafted that he dictates when the Phoenix — a force of nature — is free to spread its wings . Jean is now a " goddess " in comparison to Professor X , yet she remains subservient to her surrogate father , and it ' s implied that they ' re closer in the new timeline than in the old one . While there ' s no denying that he controls her with love , it does bring about the best outcome Xavier can hope for in terms of Jean being wholly in charge of the Phoenix , and not vice - versa . In this instance , his coddling is portrayed as having a positive impact on her psychological maturation . Bryan Singer outlines in his commentary the sway Charles has over Jean : Singer : ' It was just a dream ' [ ... ] He lies to her . Because he knows , because he ' s such a powerful psychic , [ ... ] the power of Phoenix is growing inside her , and it ' s going to become out of control . And she ' s terrified of it , but does n ' t understand it . And he does understand it . And he ca n ' t let on to her that he understands it because it would be too frightening , and she would run away . So this scene is all about control . All about keeping that power , and keeping it all under control . And only at the end of the movie does he give her permission [ ... ] to explore her power . Storm is a white - haired woman with weather manipulation / summoning powers . Silver hair in Quicksilver ' s case . And while he is fond of breaking the law , he ' s not much of a White Hair , Black Heart like in the comics . Wolverine complains about the uniforms ; Cyclops then asks , " What would you prefer , yellow Spandex ? " The explanation for how Rogue acquired the signature strands of white hair . Magneto says " When will these people learn to fly ? " , referring to the fact that some of the X - men can fly in the comics . There is a brief exchange between Nightcrawler and Mystique , who are mother and son in the comics . The way Mystique approaches Wolverine disguised as Storm – - and how he identified her – - is very similar to a scene from The Dark Phoenix Saga , where a Skrull named Raksor , also impersonating Storm , tried the same trick on Logan , with a similar result . Banshee ' s wings are striped only to resemble the comics counterpart . The uniforms are yellow and blue bodysuits , and Havok ' s reaction is " Do we really have to wear these ? " The helmet Erik seizes from Shaw and the repainted version in the final scene of the film resemble his helmet in the comics much more than the helmet worn by Ian McKellen . McCoy wears the horn - rimmed variety in the First Class trilogy , which in his case is a visual cue that he ' s a geeky academic . X - Men : Days of Future Past : 1973 Magneto proclaims a new era of mutant supremacy to the American leadership and the entire world . However , as he does , the audience is treated to the future scene of Sentinels wiping out the last of the Free Mutants , showing the fate his new era truly leads to.Magneto : You built these weapons to destroy us . Why ? Because you are afraid of our gifts . Because we are different . Humanity has always feared that which is different . Well , I ' m here to tell you , to tell the world : you ' re right to fear us . We are the future ! We are the ones who will inherit this Earth ! And anyone who stands in our way will suffer the same fate as these men you see before you . Today was meant to be a display of your power . Instead , I give you a glimpse of the devastation my race can unleash upon yours . Let this be a warning to the world , and to my mutant brothers and sisters out there , I say this : no more hiding . No more suffering . You have lived in the shadows in shame and fear for too long . Come out ! Join me ! Fight together in a Brotherhood of our kind . A new tomorrow ... that starts today . Thanks to Xavier ' s powers , Apocalypse sends his own to all the people in the world about how he ' ll tear down everything that humanity has ever built in order to usher in a new world order . Charles changes the ending to " those with the greatest power , protect those without . " Hear me , inhabitants of this world . This is a message , a message to every man , woman and mutant . You have lost your way , but I have returned . The day of reckoning is here . All your buildings , all of your towers and temples will fall . And the dawn of a new age will rise , for there is nothing you can do to stop what is coming . This message is for one reason alone : to tell the strongest among you , those with the greatest power , this Earth will be yours . Professor X opens his heart and his home to mutants who feel persecuted by the outside world.Logan : There ' s not many people that will understand what you ' re going through , but I think this guy Xavier is one of them . He seems to genuinely want to help you , and that ' s a rare thing for people like us . Hank McCoy is very friendly , prefers to avoid conflict , and truly comes out of his shell when in his comfort zones , such as discussing science or assisting with the other students . Darwin is polite , friendly , and when things get rough he can be seen immediately moving to make himself a human shield for the other kids . Colossus is easily the most polite character in Deadpool , trying to encourage the title character to become a hero and acting as a Parental Substitute to Negasonic Teenage Warhead . Angel Dust responds to his gentlemanly behaviour towards her with , " Aww , how sweet . " When Scott unintentionally wreaks Professor X ' s favourite tree on the estate — an irreplaceable family heirloom because it was planted by Xavier ' s grandfather when he was five years old — the teen assumes that he must have pissed off Charles and is worried that he ' ll be kicked out . Instead , the Professor chuckles and warmly welcomes Scott to his school . Jean , who had witnessed the entire event , smiles at Xavier ' s benevolence and forgiveness . Played with in Scott Summers ' case , who is initially rude and snarky to everyone around him . After his brother Alex dies , he veers towards his classic characterization of a " boy scout . " Xavier keeps Patrick Stewart ' s English accent . James McAvoy tries to copy it , but at times the actor ' s Scottishness slips through . Gambit does n ' t sound remotely Cajun ( in fact , he almost sounds like he ' s from Texas ) . Somewhat justified in Gambit ' s case , as Louisiana and Texas , being right next to each other , share a significant degree of dialect between them . While Halle Berry attempts some sort of accent in the first film , by the third she ' s not even trying anymore . Same with Anna Paquin and Rogue , who has a slight Mississippi accent in the first movie which disappears in the sequels . Somewhat justified with Rogue as she ' s a teenager and growing to fit in with her classmates . The North Albertan bartender in X - Men Origins : Wolverine seems to be from Tennessee for some reason . First Class de - accentizes Banshee and Moira ( though the latter goes from Scottish to American ) . Basically , if you ' re not Nightcrawler , you WILL lose your trademark speech pattern in the movieverse . ( However , it ' s less glaring than you think in some cases — in the original comics , after being taught English telepathically , the X - Men are noted on - panel to have no accents . It ' s just that we hear that once ever , characters ' talk is positively filled with random words from their own languages , and every adaptation ever keeps the accent . ) X - Men : Days of Future Past : All your favorite tunes from the The ' 70s . The first thing Wolverine hears in 1973 is Roberta Flack ' s " The First Time Ever I Saw Your Face " ; Quicksilver listens to Alice Cooper ' s " Hello Hooray " and Jim Croce ' s " Time in a Bottle " ; the disco in Paris is playing Claude Francois ' s French ' 70s hit " Stop au nom de l ' amour . " X - Men : Apocalypse : The song selection leaves no doubt that the story is set in The ' 80s . Metallica ' s " Four Horsemen " plays when Archangel is " born , " and the Eurythmics ' most famous song , " Sweet Dreams ( Are Made of This ) , " is heard during Quicksilver ' s rescue of Xavier ' s students . Both were released in 1983 . An Egyptian cover of A Flock of Seagulls ' " I Ran ( So Far Away ) , " a smash hit in 1982 , is blaring from a boombox at the Cairo market . Men Without Hats ' " The Safety Dance , " another classic from that year , accompanies the deleted mall scene . The second and third films have novelizations by Chris Claremont ; the one for the third film shows a lot more of what ' s going on in Jean ' s head than the movie is able to , appropriate from the man who wrote the Dark Phoenix Saga . X2 : X - Men United is the only X - Men film which has a number in its title . X - Men : While not explicitly mentioned in the movie , Jean Grey and Scott Summers are described as each other ' s fiancé ( e ) in promotional materials . X2 : X - Men United : Rogue and Bobby Drake are in the early stages of a romantic relationship , and their challenge is dealing with her mutant ability , as she can kill someone with a prolonged touch . X - Men : Days of Future Past : Iceman and Kitty Pryde in The Rogue Cut . In the Alternate Timeline , that seems to have been erased because Bobby is with Rogue again , and Kitty is presumably with Colossus . Deadpool : Wade Wilson and Vanessa Carlysle are engaged . X - Men : Apocalypse : Erik and Magda are married . X - Men : The Last Stand : Mystique vehemently tells the FBI interrogator that her parents tried to murder her . X - Men Origins : Wolverine : Thomas Logan nearly shoots his son James Howlett when the kid is charging at him with newly sprouted bone claws , but Elizabeth Howlett manages to grab the hunting rifle before Thomas could do so . The Wolverine : Shingen planned to kill his daughter so that he would inherit his father ' s company . In The Rogue Cut , Mystique and Beast definitely still have feelings for each other despite being separated for over a decade . Mystique was even romantically involved with Magneto before he was incarcerated , but her first choice back in 1962 was Hank . X - Men : Apocalypse : Charles and Hank still carry torches for Moira and Raven , respectively . X - Men Origins : Wolverine : Judging by the refined manners of John Howlett and the grandeur of the mansion , James Howlett was born into wealth . However , he learns when he was around 13 years old that his mother Elizabeth had an affair with Thomas Logan , his family ' s groundskeeper , and is their illegitimate child . After the death of both his legal father and biological father , James runs away from home , and he has been scratching a living ever since . X - Men : First Class : Charles Xavier was born with a silver spoon in his mouth . He lives in a very Big Fancy House , there are servants ( a maid is mentioned ) , and his mother is a snobby British Socialite who thinks so highly of herself that she never enters the kitchen of her own home . Charles ' taste in material goods is often expressed in classic , Simple , yet Opulent ways , in contrast to the gaudy Conspicuous Consumption that we normally associate with the Nouveau Riche . X - Men : Days of Future Past : Past Charles can afford not to work for a decade because he can simply mooch off his inherited wealth . The Xavier family crest on the tail of his personal plane , his plane ' s elegantly decorated interior , and even the design of the chess set he brings along for the trip are a visual cue to the audience that he is this trope , and not the tacky ( or so the stereotype goes ) Nouveau Riche . X - Men : Apocalypse : This detailed look at Xavier ' s mansion practically screams this trope . The narrator introduces it as , " In its near 300 years of service , this estate has been the primary residence for New York ' s elite society . " She later adds , " ... every effort has been made to preserve its historical and architectural integrity of the above - ground structure . " It is estimated to be worth◊ $ 75,850,000 USD ( 2016 ) ! Charles owns a collection of beautiful vintage cars which are in pristine working condition , and that takes a lot of coin to maintain . Magneto always has one big scene featuring him lifting / moving an extremely large object with his powers . X - Men : Moving the Auschwitz gate and operating the changing machine . X2 : X - Men United : Catching the Blackbird as it plummets . X - Men : The Last Stand : Moving the Golden Gate Bridge . X - Men : First Class : Lifting Shaw ' s submarine out of the water . X - Men : Days of Future Past : Lifting the entirety of RFK ( then known as DC ) Stadium and yanking the safe room out of the White House . X2 : X - Men United : Nightcrawler was excluded from the planning session along with the younger X - Men . X - Men : First Class : Raven would rather hang out with the adolescent mutants than with Charles and Erik even though her age is much closer to the two men ' s . Near the beginning , Raven points out to Charles that she is his only friend . Presumably an affable fellow like Xavier would have numerous acquaintances , but his sister figure is the sole person he fully trusts . Charles becomes this to Erik because the latter has spent his life on the hunt . Lehnsherr has n ' t met anyone who could empathize with him since his mother died . The Wolverine : While Logan is hiding out in the Yukon woods , his sole companion is a grizzly bear that lives nearby . X - Men : Days of Future Past : After Past Charles isolates himself from the outside world due to his severe depression , Hank becomes his sole companion . Hank also does n ' t seem to have a social circle , as he has taken it upon himself to be Charles ' caretaker , which appears to be something of a full - time job . Shingen Yashida ' s big objective is to gain his father ' s inheritance . Viper describes herself as a capitalist . Noburo Mori is only marrying Mariko for the power and money that comes with such a connection to Shingen . X - Men : Apocalypse : Mystique accuses Caliban of caring only about money . Ororo Munroe is regularly referred to as Storm . Everyone calls Rogue by her code name . Marie is only used twice in the entire franchise . X - Men : Apocalypse : Psylocke and Angel are only called by their code names . Jubilation Lee goes by her nickname Jubilee in promotional materials . Before X - Men : Apocalypse , Professor X had never condoned the slaying of a Big Bad . The worst it ever got was when he reluctantly became an accessory to murder in X - Men : First Class ; he had held Sebastian Shaw motionless with his telepathy while pleading with Erik not to kill the man . When Charles is in a Battle in the Center of the Mind with Apocalypse , he is n ' t strong enough to subdue the god - like mutant , so he implores Jean Grey to summon her Phoenix powers , knowing full well that she will annihilate his enemy . In the Alternate Timeline , Xavier is a touch more aggressive , and this marks a major change for his character going forwards . Occasionally Hugh Jackman simply ca n ' t hide that he ' s Australian . Michael Fassbender also lapses into his Irish origins in First Class . It ' s somewhat unavoidably noticeable if he was speaking German the moment before and he ' s meant to be from the Eastern bloc . Handwaveable with Magneto as he ' s spent years living all over Europe and learned at least four whole languages ( Polish , German , French and English ) . It ' s quite possible he spent some time in the Emerald Isle and picked up a few tics . James McAvoy ' s English accent is very good , but he reverts to his native Scottish whenever he shouts or cries . The English Nicholas Hoult ' s American accent is consistent , but he frequently messes up on the word " professor . " X - Men : " Mutation : it is the key to our evolution . It has enabled us to evolve from a single - celled organism into the dominant species on the planet . This process is slow , and normally taking thousands and thousands of years . But every few hundred millennia , evolution leaps forward . " X2 : X - Men United : " Mutants . Since their discovery , they have been regarded with fear , suspicion , even hatred . Across the planet , debate rages . Are mutants the next link in the evolutionary chain , or simply a new species of humanity , fighting for their share of the world ? Either way , it is an historical fact : sharing the world has never been humanity ' s defining attribute . " X - Men : Days of Future Past : " The future : a dark , desolate world , a world of war , suffering , loss on both sides . Mutants , and the humans who dared to help them , fighting an enemy we can not defeat . Are we destined down this path , destined to destroy ourselves like so many species before us ? Or can we evolve fast enough to change ourselves , change our fate ? Is the future truly set ? " It ' s paired with a closing monologue : " The past : a new and uncertain world , a world of endless possibilities and infinite outcomes . Countless choices define our fate ; each choice , each moment , a ripple in the river of time . Enough ripples , and you change the tide , for the future is never truly set . " X - Men : Apocalypse : " Mutants , born with extraordinary abilities , and yet still , they are children , stumbling in the dark , searching for guidance . A gift can often be a curse . Give someone wings , and they may fly too close to the sun . Give them the power of prophecy , and they may live in fear of the future . Give them the greatest gift of all , powers beyond imagination , and they may think they are meant to rule the world . " Pyro in the second X - Men movie had the choice between Magneto or Xavier . This is often the case with some characters in the comics too . When not shapeshifted , Mystique has scaly parts over her naughty bits . The title X - Men Origins : Wolverine is self - evident . X - Men : First Class is specifically for Magneto , Professor X , Mystique and Beast . This adventure is before the X - Men , before the Brotherhood , before the world at large knew about mutants . This is where it all started . Deadpool explores Wade Wilson ' s transformation into the titular character . X - Men : Apocalypse delves into the lives of Cyclops , Jean Grey , Storm and Nightcrawler in the Alternate Timeline before they became members of the X - Men . X - Men : For the audience at least , " Bobby Drake ' s " stern demeanour when he tells Rogue that she should go is at odds with his introduction as a Nice Guy . As it turns out , Mystique had impersonated him . X - Men : First Class : How kid Xavier pierces kid Raven ' s disguise at the beginning of the film . She looks like his mother , but acts nothing like her . He confirms it with telepathy . X - Men : Days of Future Past : Dr. Bolivar Trask ' s secretary is surprised when he compliments her scarf , which is something he does n ' t normally do . We learn a few seconds later that " Trask " was actually Mystique , who has n ' t quite mastered gender roles yet . Professor X is a conditional pacifist . He abhors violence and avoids it as much as possible ( by his own admission , he is n ' t very good at it ) , but he recognizes that there are circumstances when it must be utilized to defend people ' s lives and his ideals . Xavier has proactively engaged in aggressive behaviour only thrice . In X - Men : First Class , he tackles Magneto to distract the latter from slaughtering the American and Soviet fleets with their own missiles . In X - Men : Days of Future Past , Charles punches Erik in the face for betraying , abandoning and crippling him 11 years prior — note that the use of force in this case stems purely from a personal grudge , and it does n ' t help Xavier ' s mission in any way . In X - Men : Apocalypse , he instigates a Battle in the Center of the Mind against the eponymous villain to save Mystique and Quicksilver , whom Apocalypse had threatened to murder . Earlier in the movie , Hank mentions that the Professor had turned down his request to restart the X - Men , and Raven remarks that " Charles wants students , not soldiers , " but after their confrontation with Apocalypse , Xavier accepts that it ' s no longer sufficient for him to simply be a teacher . He retakes his position as the commander of his paramilitary group and ensures that his protégés will be combat - ready for the next big threat . Magneto always had some red and / or purple colour on his outfit , but in 2023 , his uniform is completely black and grey , signifying that he ' s now part of the X - Men . X - Men : Days of Future Past costume designer Louise Mingenbach described Past Xavier ' s switch from his brown - and - pink casual wear to his more formal blues and greys that is typically associated with the character in the other movies . " At the beginning of the film , Charles is medicating , and very possibly on hallucinogens , so we had that come through in his shirt . As he pulls himself together , he wears a nice blue oxford like all good , put - together men — a progression from that psychedelic Cat Stevens - wear . " X - Men : Erik Lehnsherr ' s father was probably killed in a concentration camp , and his mother was definitely murdered before him by Sebastian Shaw to try and induce his magnetism powers . X2 : X - Men United : Judging by the sad and envious expression on Pyro ' s face when he stares at the Drake family photos , it ' s strongly implied that John ' s parents have disowned him ( or they may have died when he was very young ) . X - Men : Apocalypse : Alexandra Shipp confirms that Ororo ' s parents died when a plane crashed into their home when she was five years old . Downplayed with Professor X since he never neglects any of his students whether as a teacher or as a Parental Substitute , but he is closer to those who are Birds of a Feather , like Hank in X - Men : First Class and Jean in X - Men : Apocalypse . Hank and Jean do receive a bit more of his time and care . X - Men : First Class : Charles ' mother is hinted to be emotionally distant towards her son , which is why Raven ' s maternal act backfires spectacularly.Charles : ( telepathically communicates to Raven disguised as Mrs. Xavier ) My mother has never set foot in this kitchen in her life , and she certainly never made me hot chocolate , unless you count ordering the maid to do it . X - Men : Apocalypse : Ben Hardy suggests that a lack of parental nurturing is a major factor in Warren turning to the dark side . " People who do n ' t get looked after enough can end up being very angry and I feel like this is where Angel ' s anger comes from and maybe that gives him the potential to transform and become one of the villains . " Charles Xavier plays this role to all of the X - Men , but it ' s most notable in X - Men : First Class with a young Hank and the teenaged Alex and Sean , all of whom remain loyal to him before and after Cuba . The mere mention of Sean ' s death in X - Men : Days of Future Past makes Charles visibly distraught , which is in direct contrast to all of the other names that Erik throws at him . Being a father figure to Jean is explored in more detail in X - Men : Apocalypse , and Quicksilver decides to stay with the Professor instead of getting to know his estranged father . There is one exception . In X - Men : Days of Future Past , Charles claims he had raised Raven , and Erik corrects him — they grew up together . He is not her father . This ties into the end of the film , when he stops trying to control her and lets her make her own choice . Downplayed in the scene where 1973 Xavier interacts with Peter Maximoff before the former departs for Paris . Charles instinctually behaves in a paternal manner when he ' s around a young mutant , especially one who does n ' t have much of a direction in his life ( in Quicksilver ' s case , he ' s a juvenile delinquent who grew up without a father ) . Peter ' s smile at the end indicates that he appreciates the sentiment . Scott Summers invokes this while Professor X is in a coma . " You taught me everything in my life that was ever worth knowing . " The Wolverine : Ichirō Yashida for Mariko , as Shingen , her actual parent , is not a nice man . McCoy is a teacher at the school , and he has a paternal relationship with the younger mutants . He begins to form a bond with Scott . Apocalypse serves this role to his Horsemen . He also invokes this trope when he asserts that " You are all my children , and you ' re lost because you follow blind leaders . " He also tends to call mutants " my child . " Given who plays Professor X , not surprising . Given who he is , also not surprising . Xavier ' s core message requires having such a speech at hand and ready to give at a moment ' s notice ( as true here as it was in the source material ) . The capacity to give such a speech is the only thing that he and Magneto are feuding over . In X - Men : First Class , where he is played by James McAvoy , he gives such a speech to Erik Lehnsherr . During their chess game , he attempts to convince Erik that human beings are capable of great understanding , and that mutants should be patient , as " we have it in us to be the better men . " Erik skeptically replies , " We already are . " An even more epic example occurs in X - Men : Days of Future Past , where his older self gives one to his younger self , convincing the latter to " hope again , " and that despite what happens ( or in 1973 Xavier ' s case , will happen ) to mutants , humanity can still be shown " a better path . " X - Men : Professor X briefly takes control of Toad and Sabretooth and attempts to rescue Rogue from Magneto . Professor X freezes hundreds of people in a large museum . During the finale , Jean Grey is able to use Xavier ( a fellow psychic ) as a conduit to communicate with Scott . Charles immobilizes everyone except for Moira at the CIA Headquarters so that he can have a private telepathic conversation with her . Xavier mentally forces a Soviet officer to fire on the Aral Sea , thus single - handedly preventing World War III . Once Erik removes Shaw ' s telepathy - blocking helmet , Charles keeps Sebastian motionless . The Wolverine : In The Stinger , Logan notices that everyone at the airport besides himself and Magneto has suddenly stopped dead in their tracks . Only one mutant in the franchise has been shown to possess this ability ... X - Men : Days of Future Past : Xavier possesses various people around Mystique at the airport to talk to her in a casual display of how creepy his power can be when he gets creative . He temporarily prevents Mystique ' s body from moving once he determines that she ' s pretending to be a secret service agent , although he still permits her to speak . President Nixon , his cabinet and Trask are put on " pause " when Charles tells Raven he wo n ' t push her anymore and that she ' s free to decide Trask ' s fate . After the climax , he also controls Magneto when Mystique knocks the latter ' s helmet off to free himself from the metal debris that fell on him earlier . X - Men : Apocalypse : Professor X " insists " with his mind - control abilities that everyone at the CIA building " take a break " so that he and Havok can visit Agent MacTaggert without having to deal with security . The Cold War is the setting for the First Class trilogy . First Class dealt with the Cuban Missile Crisis in 1962 , the 1973 portion of Days of Future Past included the Paris Peace Accords ( which marked the end of the The Vietnam War ) , and Apocalypse takes place 1983 . There is some uncertainty over the timeline for X - Men Origins : Wolverine , but it ' s somewhere around The ' 70s and / or The ' 80s . Hank has light stubble throughout the movie which is meant to make him look older than his clean - shaven appearance in First Class . X - Men : Apocalypse : Charles has faint stubble instead of being clean - shaven ( which is his regular look in the franchise ) , and at first , it seems to convey to the audience that he has n ' t fully reclaimed his heroic Professor X identity . He ' s a relaxed , content principal , teacher , and low - key mutant activist , not a commander of a paramilitary group like in X - Men : First Class . However , once he decides that it ' s necessary for him to step up his role as a leader of mutants , he still keeps the extra facial hair — this illustrates that James McAvoy ' s character is " rougher - around - the - edges " than Patrick Stewart ' s in the original timeline . Xavier ' s stubble is also a Shout - Out to Detective James " Sonny " Crockett from Miami Vice.note Charles ' costumes were directly inspired by the character on the TV show . X2 : X - Men United : Professor X can kill everyone on the planet with Cerebro if he concentrates hard enough . X - Men : The Last Stand : The Phoenix effortlessly vaporizes hundreds of human soldiers and Magneto ' s mutant followers . It ' s explicitly emphasized that this is Sebastian Shaw ' s primary power — he can absorb energy ... all kinds of energy . This makes him effectively bullet - proof , rocket and grenade - proof , and can even absorb the energy of your punches , no matter how strong you are . He also states that he is effectively immortal . Finally , he can absorb enough energy to simulate a nuclear bomb blast ... and presumably come out the other side unharmed . Havok is fearful of the damage his powers could do if he is n ' t kept isolated , and so prefers being in solitary confinement while in prison so he is at less risk of hurting someone by accident . Deadpool : Negasonic Teenage Warhead destroys a large part of the scrapyard with her last attack , capsizing the grounded helicarrier and sends Angel Dust bouncing around like a pinball . X - Men : Apocalypse : En Sabah Nur single - handedly razes the city of Cairo to the ground with his Mind over Matter powers , potentially massacring millions of its inhabitants . Patrick Stewart and Ian McKellen were given ageing make - up because their characters are roughly fifteen years older than they are . The viral website states the events of X - Men : The Last Stand occurred in 2006 when Kitty Pryde appeared to be , at the most , in her mid - teens . The Bad Future is said to occur in or very close to 2023 , putting Kitty in her early 30s even though the films were released just 8 years apart and Ellen Page was 26 during filming . During filming , James McAvoy and Rose Byrne were 36 years old while Michael Fassbender was 38 , but their characters are in their late forties / early fifties in 1983 . Nicholas Hoult was 25 years old during principal photography , but if we assume that his character was around 20 in 1962 , then in 1983 Beast is pushing 40 . Lucas Till is 8 months younger than Hoult , and Havok is only a couple of years younger than Beast . Alex Summers is roughly two decades older than his brother Scott , but Tye Sheridan is just 6 years Till ' s junior . Pyro ca n ' t generate fire , but is immune to it and can direct and grow any nearby fire . As such , he uses a lighter to create it when he needs to in the first two movies , and he gets a wrist mounted flamethrower in the third . X - Men : Days of Future Past : Sunspot ' s mutant ability consists of converting the sun ' s energy into bursts of flame that he can aim at his enemies . X - Men : Apocalypse : The Ancient Egyptian Famine ' s mutant power is pyrokinesis . It ' s very much like Pyro ' s in that she only seems capable of manipulating already existent fire instead of being able to create it . Nightcrawler provides some of the more amusing moments in X2 : X - Men United and X - Men : Apocalypse . Banshee is the most fun character in X - Men : First Class . Quicksilver is a source of comedy in X - Men : Days of Future Past and X - Men : Apocalypse . As referenced by the opening credits of Deadpool , Weasel ' s narrative purpose is comedy . We get a glimpse of what the world looks like through the ruby quartz lenses of Scott ' s sunglasses when he puts them on for the first time . After Apocalypse notices Xavier ' s presence through the latter ' s telepathic link with Erik , Apocalypse stares straight at the camera ( so we ' re seeing him through the Professor ' s perspective ) with his glowing white eyes as he ominously states , " Thank you for letting me in . " X - Men has the machine that turns ordinary people into mutants powered by Magneto , but using it weakens the power source ( likely killing him if he uses it on full power ) , so he forcibly has the power - stealing mutant Rogue absorb his ability and uses her to power the machine . X2 : X - Men United : Stryker ' s mind - control serum is derived from chemicals secreted by the brain of his own son , Jason . Although still alive and still capable of using his impressive powers of illusion , Jason ' s been given a lobotomy to make him more pliable and is confined to a wheelchair , complete with a shunt in the back of his head used for collecting the fluid . X - Men : The Last Stand : The mutant cure is distilled from Leech ' s blood , although the scientists hope to eventually artificially synthesize it . Unlike other examples , Leech is treated rather well and seems fine with the arrangement . X - Men : Rogue ca n ' t control her ability at all because she ' s a Power Parasite who can potentially kill anyone who touches her . She has to wear gloves and ca n ' t ever be intimate or close to anyone . X - Men : First Class : Alex Summers can emit powerful energy blasts , but he ca n ' t control their direction . This problem is solved by a special harness , which he even refers to as his " energy diaper " in a deleted scene . X - Men : Days of Future Past : Erik nearly crashes the plane when he ' s yelling at Charles . Xavier subjects himself to a Power Nullifier because he has lost control over his telepathy . X - Men : Apocalypse : Scott Summers ca n ' t control his Eye Beams when they start manifesting . He has to be blindfolded until he is brought to the Xavier Institute , otherwise he ' ll destroy everything ( and everyone ) around him . There , Hank McCoy creates special filter sunglasses for him , enabling him to control his mutant ability . X - Men : First Class : When Charles is helping all of the mutants train , the most effective memory to focus Erik ' s powers is Hanukkah with his mother . X - Men : Apocalypse : If Charles has a secondary mutation , it would be this — he has the ability to " transform " the people around him into better versions of themselves . His unwavering love and support for his daughter figure Jean allows her to overcome her fears about her Phoenix power , and she fries Apocalypse with deadly efficiency , saving the world and the Professor ' s life in the process . Magneto pulls a Heel – Face Turn when he realizes that his love for Xavier is stronger than his hate towards human society , which has murdered his family twice over . Peter could ' ve easily returned to his mother ' s basement and continue wasting his potential after the Final Battle ( especially considering that he had decided to withhold from Erik that he ' s his son ) , but it ' s implied that Maximoff was touched by Charles ' worry for his well - being when Xavier had created a telepathic link between them while Quicksilver was fighting Apocalypse . It should be noted that Charles had n ' t spoken to Peter in a decade , but the former ' s capacity for love is so great that he had opened his mind to a young mutant whom he barely knows , and he sincerely cared about whether Maximoff got hurt or not . The self - described " total loser " Quicksilver is now a member of the X - Men who can make a positive difference in the world . Xavier uses his telepathy to " guess " the drink orders of the women he flirts with . Executive producer Tarquin Pack lampshades this specific example in the rare " Extraordinary Abilities " featurette . ( See the Bonus Material entry . ) " If I had the ability to read minds , and I was at university , and I could influence people through my mental powers , I would probably also be a bit of a Lothario . ( laughs ) Who would n ' t be ? " Raven jokingly insinuates that Hank ' s large , ape - like feet might be an indication that he has a massive penis . Emma Frost seduces a Russian general by projecting a mental image of herself so he thinks she ' s having sex with him , when she ' s in fact sitting a distance away looking bored . Raven shapeshifts from her teenaged form into a more mature woman ( Rebecca Romijn in a cameo ) in the belief that Erik would prefer her that way . Magneto is not impressed because he wanted " the real Raven . " It took her two tries to realize that he wanted her natural blue form . Charles and Alex discuss this as they ' re heading towards Moira ' s office.Alex : So you really have n ' t see her in all these years ? You never looked her up ? Not even in Cerebro ? Charles : Alex , what do you take me for , some kind of pervert ? Yes , I looked her up once , twice . But not in a long time , alright ? Quicksilver ' s flirtation with Moira in Bullet Time is so brief that she does n ' t even know it happened ! Peter also employs his Super Speed in this commercial and attempts to impress a young woman so that he can earn a date with her . X - Men : First Class : During a montage of Charles and Erik finding and recruiting other mutants , their search brings them into a small , dingy bar where Wolverine has no interest in their offer : " Go fuck yourself . " The Wolverine : All are spoken by Logan . The extended cut adds two more : " Too many fucking wars , " and " Talk or I ' ll throw you out that fucking window ! " Charles Xavier , of all people , tells Wolverine to " Fuck off " in a Call - Back to their first encounter . The Rogue Cut has President Nixon grumpily utter , " Fuck me " after watching news footage of the Paris Peace Accords . X - Men : Apocalypse : Magneto has the honour this time around when he comes face - to - face with Apocalypse and his then - three Horsemen . ( " Who the fuck are you ? " ) If you do a Freeze - Frame Bonus on the Xavier coat of arms , located on the tail of Charles ' personal plane in X - Men : Days of Future Past , the family motto reads , " Fratrem tuum adjuva , " which means " Help your brother . " Not only does this fit Professor X ' s compassionate personality to a tee , but it also suggests that his Old Money ancestors on his father ' s side were philanthropists . Assisting those who are less fortunate must have been regarded as a sacred duty , as those Latin words supposedly designate what the Xavier family values the most . Bobby Drake ' s dainty facial features quickly communicate to the audience that he ' s a good - hearted person . This is especially true in the first movie , where he was only a minor character , but viewers were able to tell right away that " the cute guy " is sincere when trying to befriend Rogue . Moroever , being forced to abandon his family in the second film is more painful when his expression is very much like a puppy dog who has just been kicked . Appearance - wise , Dr. Charles Xavier is strongly defined by his boyishness : he has a soft , round face , baby blue eyes , cherry - red lips ( the colour is so deep at times that it almost looks like he ' s wearing lipstick ) , and is of shorter - than - average height . It ' s symbolic of his sensitive , nice guy qualities . Erik Lehnsherr even calls him " adorable " when Charles tries the Cerebro machine for the first time . With his fair complexion , the young telepath resembles a living porcelain doll , and his fragility becomes evident when he " breaks " physically and emotionally during the climax . Dr. Hank McCoy is quite similar to Xavier ( just younger and a lot more insecure ) , and while this may be a coincidence , it ' s nevertheless convenient that he shares some facial features with his mentor , like pale skin , blue eyes and thick reddish lips . The one big physical difference between them is that Hank is a lot taller . The Wolverine : Wolverine invokes this when he confronts Harada , presumably as an attempt to deride the latter ' s masculinity . Harada has an elegant face , a slim build , and is an agile ninja , in contrast to the macho bruiser Logan . X - Men : Days of Future Past : Peter Maximoff is baby - faced with reddish lips and cute in an impish way . It ' s a visual cue to the audience that he ' s an immature prankster who does n ' t take life seriously . Professor X is around 50 years old , yet before he loses his hair , he ' s still gorgeous and youthful - looking for his age ( he can pass for a man in his early 30s ) — in fact , he does n ' t appear all that different from his graduate student days in First Class . This alludes to him embracing his former naïvety again , and it makes him look much more helpless and vulnerable when he becomes Apocalypse ' s prisoner . Being boyishly beautiful also emphasizes Charles ' status as a victim when he ' s Mind Raped by Apocalypse , which is a metaphor for sexual assault . Because Beauty Equals Goodness for James McAvoy ' s Xavier , maintaining his dainty appearance even when he ' s being viciously battered , bloodied and bruised on the astral plane connotes that he ' s a person with a tenderhearted soul who ' s dying . Repeating a theme from First Class is Hank being a mirror image of Charles with a few key differences . McCoy remains pretty and boyish in a similar way to Xavier , but despite being a decade younger , he is much more cautious and realistic than his ex - mentor , and he makes plans to ensure that the X - Men have everything they need when ( and not if ) the peace between mutants and humans is shattered . Warren Worthington III is beautiful , and it ' s meant to be ironic that an angelic - looking youth is actually quite ruthless and deadly . Although Nightcrawler falls more on the " cute " side , he is extremely attractive with his elfin features ( particularly larger , more prominent ears ) which are further enhanced by his adolescent development . They reflect his Adorkable personality , and even with the scars on his face , the impression Kurt Wagner leaves on viewers is that he ' s a lovely blue elf rather than a freaky blue demon . Quicksilver is affirmed to be Magneto ' s son , so Peter ' s softer , delicate features juxtapose his father ' s Villainous Cheekbones . Quicksilver fights for the heroic team , and Magneto sides with the Big Bad . Maximoff ' s puckish looks also mark him as a Manchild and a Basement - Dweller . During his confrontation with Apocalypse , Quicksilver moves gracefully as a Fragile Speedster , and once Apocalypse takes away his Super Speed advantage , Peter is wholly defenseless . Because Maximoff ' s face exudes an aura of innocence , it evokes the imagery of a " lamb to the slaughter " when Apocalypse offers his bare neck to Psylocke for execution . Dr. Charles Xavier earned his " Professor of Genetics " title from the University of Oxford . Even before he became a paraplegic , he was considerably less action - oriented than the other mutants on his team , and is often protected by a combatant ( e.g . Cyclops , Beast , Havok ) . Professor X serves as the Team Dad for the X - Men . When Wolverine was first introduced to the X - Men comics , he was about 5 ' 3 " and quite unattractive . After Tall , Dark , and Handsome Hugh Jackman became famous for portraying the character in the films , people seem to forget that one of Wolverine ' s old nicknames was " dog face . " Professor X in the comics is a middle - aged bald guy who is average - looking at best with no striking physical features ( and considering that he ' s usually drawn with a severe facial expression , he could be deemed slightly below average ) . Patrick Stewart was cast as the elderly version of the character in the films ( Xavier is in his early - to - mid 70s in the original trilogy ) . Stewart is the trope image for Bald of Awesome , and he ' s widely renown as being very handsome for an older bald man . The younger Charles became a sex symbol within the film fandom after X - Men : First Class , which starred James McAvoy , a Pretty Boy extraordinaire , and the studio had dictated that the actor conserve his thick , wavy tresses for the role . The filmmakers of X - Men : Apocalypse then surpassed this by making " Professor Sex " an extremely young - looking 50 - year - oldnote McAvoy was 36 during principal photography and was n ' t subjected to any ageing make - up Long - Haired Pretty Boy who ' s glamorous like an ' 80s fashion model , plus he was lightly objectified for the first time in the movie franchise with a white shirt that had semi - transparent " stripes , " and a thin lilac sweater that did n ' t exactly mask the contour of his pectoral muscles ( or even his nipples , for that matter ) . The younger fangirls who were n ' t familiar with the comics and / or Stewart ' s performance genuinely became upset when McAvoy ' s Xavier lost all of his hair in the third act . X - Men : Wolverine keeps his vow to Rogue by nearly dying trying to save her life in the climax.Logan : I ' ll take care of you . Rogue : You promise ? Logan : Yeah , I promise . X - Men : First Class : Charles managed to uphold his promise not to use his telepathy on Raven for 18 years until the shock and pain of a bullet in his spine became too much for him to bear , compromising his concentration.Raven : You promised me you would never read my mind . Charles : I know . I promised you a great many things , I ' m afraid . I ' m sorry . X - Men : Days of Future Past : Wolverine requests that the younger Xavier form the X - Men regardless of the outcome of their mission.Logan : Whatever happens today , I need you to promise me something . [ ... ] The X - Men , promise me you ' ll find us . Use your power , bring us together . Guide us , lead us . [ ... ] 1973 Charles : I ' ll ... do my best . X - Men : Senator Kelly is concerned about mutants that can enter the mind of others or walk through walls . As it turns out , Mystique has been impersonating his aide for a good long while . X - Men : First Class : On multiple occasions , Erik warns Charles that humans will turn against mutants . At the end of the movie , he is proven right , as the United States and the Soviet Union unite forces to launch an attack on the group of mutants who has just saved their lives and prevented World War III . X - Men : Apocalypse : Upon learning that someone who might be Magneto is in their midst , the Polish police who come to arrest him intentionally leave their badges and guns behind , using only bows and arrows in order to prevent him from using metal against them . Unfortunately , they were not quite paranoid enough , as he instead uses the locket with his parents ' photos in it that Nina has to kill them all . X - Men : Scott tells a comatose Professor X that he will protect the students . " If anything happens , I ' ll take care of them . " X - Men : First Class : Raven is this to Charles , although she finds his concern for her safety utterly suffocating . When analyzing the First Class trilogy as a whole , Xavier the most prominent character because he receives the most Character Development , and the climax of each entry is directly connected to a significant relationship in his life . In X - Men : First Class , he and his Heterosexual Life - Partner Erik are " divorced . " In X - Men : Days of Future Past , Charles makes amends with his estranged foster sister Raven . In X - Men : Apocalypse , he strengthens his bond with his surrogate daughter Jean . The Alternate Timeline turns out to be an opportunity for Professor X to rectify two grave errors that he had committed in the original timeline . By arranging the original trilogy and the First Class trilogy as one big saga , Bryan Singer designates that Charles is the most important figure ( even if he does n ' t necessarily have the most screen time ) by having him open and close the hexalogy . In - Universe , the X - Men would n ' t exist without Xavier . X - Men : First Class : Dr. Charles Xavier is a Hot Scientist who unabashedly exploits his gorgeousness ( along with his charm ) to proposition coeds at Oxford . Charles is so fond of his hair that he immediately dismisses Hank ' s suggestion that he shave it off before he tests Cerebro . It ' s costume designer Sammy Sheldon ' s intention to make the character as stylish as possible within a conservative academic setting . X - Men : Apocalypse : Professor X is a Hot Teacher who does n ' t seem to be concerned in the slightest that his translucent white shirt would be deemed inappropriate in any other school with teenagers and children . His sunglasses are the most flashy of the film because of their gradient lenses , and they enhance his sex appeal while also giving him the air of a fashion model . Xavier runs his hand through his luscious locks ( which is his equivalent of a peacock ' s tail ) to tame some wayward strands before he meets Moira to ensure that he ' s at his most attractive . Even after he goes bald , he conjures a mental projection of himself which still proudly has a feathered mullet on its head when he faces a life - and - death struggle with Apocalypse . It ' s The End of the World as We Know It if the Professor fails , but even if he ' s doomed , he ' ll at least look fabulous on the astral plane ( heck , he still manages to be pretty even when he ' s soaked in his own blood ) . Make no mistake , folks ; Charles is vain . Charles had frequently used this gesture as a crutch when he was younger , but he lets go of the habit when he ' s around 50 years old , as displayed in X - Men : Apocalypse . X - Men : Apocalypse : Jean performs this gesture when she uses her telepathy . She must have learned it from Xavier . Magneto ' s helmet blocks out Professor X ' s and Jason Stryker ' s psychic abilities . Emma Frost can protect herself from Xavier ' s mind - reading powers when she activates her secondary mutation and covers herself in a diamond - like skin . Apocalypse can shield himself and his Horsemen from Professor X ' s telepathy . Kitty Pryde describes Professor X as " the most powerful brain in the world , " and Stryker similarly calls him " the world ' s most powerful psychic . " Sebastian Shaw is so impressed by the strength of Xavier ' s telepathy that he tries to recruit Charles even though Shaw already has a formidable psychic as his second - in - command . ( This indicates that Shaw considers Xavier ' s mutation to be more potent than Emma Frost ' s . ) Professor X ' s gift is why Apocalypse covets his " extraordinary " abilities — the best that he has encountered in " a thousand lifetimes " — and selects him to be his next mutant host . Professor X can detect people around himself , amplified greatly with Cerebro to find almost anyone in the world . In X2 : X - Men United , he uses it to mentally track a mutant who can teleport , and it ' s further revealed that he can sense the location of every mutant or every human on the planet . Concentrating hard enough will give them all a really serious Psychic Nosebleed ... followed by death . The 1973 - era Sentinels ; they are programmed to eliminate mutants . Blink ' s Battle Aura and Facial Markings . She ' s either the second - to - last or the last mutant left standing when the X - Men and the Free Mutants directly confront the Future Sentinels . In his natural gaseous form , the god - like Apocalypse is purple , and his teleportation " bubble " also has a purple tint . The walls of Cerebro glow purple when Xavier is possessed by him . The highlights in Psylocke ' s hair , her Horseman leotard and her psionic blade are purple , and she ' s very dangerous . Mystique ' s risqué dress is shiny and purple , and she ' s the most effective combatant at the cage match . The wormhole produced by Nightcrawler ' s teleportation ability is a luminous purple . In a shot of Jean Grey screaming in the astral plane , a purple filter was used over her face , and it ' s a sign that her Phoenix powers are being unleashed . X - Men : The Brotherhood members almost never speak . Mystique is silent but for one line early on , except when she ' s disguised . It ' s quite effective and adds to her , well , mystique . Sabretooth has two lines , Toad has three . X2 : X - Men United : Lady Deathstrike gets a single line of dialogue . Colossus utters one line . Multiple - Man has a total of two lines . X - Men : First Class : Azazel only says a few lines . X - Men : Days of Future Past : Colossus ' speaking part consists of a single word . Deadpool : Although Colossus finally averts this trope , Angel Dust plays it straight , letting Ajax do most of the talking for the bad guys . X - Men : Apocalypse : Psylocke ' s and Angel ' s dialogue are limited to a few lines each . X - Men Origins : Wolverine has a fictionalised version of the Three Mile Island incident , in which the nuclear plant is actually a secret laboratory for mutant experimentation , and a fight between Wolverine , Sabretooth and Weapon XI caused one of the plant ' s cooling towers to collapse . In X - Men : First Class , the Cuban Missile Crisis was instigated by Sebastian Shaw as part of his plan to have mutantkind become widespread from the nuclear fallout and dominate over humans . X - Men : Magneto looks at Wolverine ' s dogtags before asking Sabretooth , " Where is the mutant now ? " This is to mislead the audience into the same line of thinking as the heroes , that Magneto is after Wolverine , instead of his true target Rogue . The Wolverine : Will Yun Lee ( Harada ) was promoted to have rigorous sword training , but most of his action scenes involved archery . If you ' re familiar with the comics character , one might be surprised that in this film , Harada is NOT the Silver Samurai . X - Men : First Class : There are two incidents which fooled some audience members into believing that this would be the moment where Xavier would become crippled : the first was when the Blackbird crashed , and the other was when Charles experienced the trauma of Shaw ' s death telepathically . Afterwards , these viewers then assumed that Xavier ' s disability will be dealt with in a sequel , but then he is accidentally wounded by Magneto . X - Men : Apocalypse : The Blackbird , along with all the various equipment that is kept underground at the school , seem to foreshadow their use later on in the film . Their only purpose is to cause the explosion that destroys the entire school and kills Havok . X - Men : The Last Stand features a rivalry between Pyro and Iceman . X - Men Origins : Wolverine : Victor is the red to Logan ' s blue . X - Men : First Class : Erik is rather hot - headed while Charles is more level - headed. " Empire " magazine even colour - coded the front covers of their May 2011 issue accordingly.◊ X - Men : The Last Stand : Most of the mutants in Magneto ' s army and the human soldiers deployed to Alcatraz Island were quickly obliterated by the Phoenix . X - Men : Days of Future Past : Warpath , Blink , Bishop , Sunspot and Colossus are glorified extras whose main purpose in the story is to serve as cannon fodder for the 2023 - era Sentinels . X - Men : First Class : Xavier is very confident about his ability to seduce women.Charles : Heterochromia was in reference to your eyes , which I have to say are stunning . One green , one blue . It ' s a mutation , it ' s a very groovy mutation . I ' ve got news for you , Amy . You are a mutant . Amy : First you proposition a girl , and then you call her deformed . How is that seduction technique working for you ? Charles : I ' ll tell you in the morning . X - Men : Days of Future Past : Quicksilver blatantly uses his super speed when he first meets Wolverine , Professor X and Beast because he knows no one would believe what they said about him . It ' s implied this is how he gets away with everything he does . During Grant Morrison ' s run , the X - Men adopted black leather outfits in order to better match their movie counterparts . This lasted up until Joss Whedon ' s Astonishing X - Men run , where the team started wearing colorful outfits again in order to seem less threatening . For a time , Mystique adopted her scaled , reptilian appearance from the comics . Magneto ' s plastic prison was used by The Ultimates in Ultimate X - Men . Ultimate X - Men also used a version of William Stryker directly inspired by his role in X - 2 ( in the original comics , Stryker was just a bigoted preacher ) . Toad adopted his Adaptational Badass qualities from the movies for a while , before reverting back to being a massive loser . The movie introduced the idea of Iceman being significantly younger than the original X - Men , which was used in Ultimate X - Men , X - Men : Evolution , and Wolverine and the X - Men . The depiction of the Xavier Institute as an actual school for mutants was also taken from the first movie . Prior to that , the school aspect was just a cover , and the only real " students " were the X - Men themselves . Cerebro as a giant room - sized , IMAX Dome - Theatre room with a central orbiting platform more or less translated from the movies to the comics and cartoons ( X Men Evolution began with a more comics ! accurate Cerebro , i.e . just a souped up computer that filled up a decent office - space and then translated into upraded Cerebro ) . First Class retcons certain elements of The Last Stand , notably the fact that Charles and Erik were still shown to be working together while middle - aged during the flashback sequences in the latter film . Days of Future Past goes even further by using time - travel to completely erase the events of Last Stand out of existence . In The Wolverine , Ichirō Yashida invokes this to describe Wolverine metaphorically . The latter ' s " lack of a master " translates to " a lack of purpose , " and this turns him into an immortal drifter . note His comic counterpart does indeed have samurai background . This doubles as Fridge Brilliance because Logan ' s strong reaction to Professor X ' s supposed death in X - Men : The Last Stand , the post - credits airport scene ( where Wolverine only cares about what Xavier has to say , not Magneto ) , and the 2023 portion of X - Men : Days of Future Past prove that Charles is essentially his " master . " X - Men : In the comics , Mystique wears clothing even when she ' s in her natural form . Her movie counterpart , however , is stark naked . Most ( if not all ) fans expected the young Professor X to be bald , but the studio wanted James McAvoy to keep his hair in order to retain the actor ' s sex appeal . After Emma Frost uses her psychic ability to fool the Soviet general into believing that he has engaged in foreplay with her , she decides to remain in her lingerie ( instead of putting her dress back on ) while she snacks on crackers . There is absolutely no practical reason for Mystique to be exposing her cleavage when she ' s dressed in the combat uniform . Costume designer Sammy Sheldon admits in the " Suiting Up " featurette on the Blu - Ray release that her goal with that outfit was " to make [ Mystique ] look sexy . " X - Men : Days of Future Past : In the March 2014 issue of Empire magazine , the actor states that he was more than willing to get rid of his luxurious locks , but once again the producers nixed the idea.James McAvoy : I wanted to go bald in this one , [ ... ] but they did n ' t go for it . I was gutted . Professor X retains his thick , wavy mane for most of the movie instead of being bald for its entirety . Justified in this case because Xavier did n ' t display any signs of male - pattern baldness in Days of Future Past , so the hair loss which occurs later on is not natural . The actors in their 30s who play characters who are in their late 40s / early 50s ( McAvoy , Fassbender and Byrne ) were not given any ageing make - up , and there is very little grey in their hair . This is especially jarring with Professor X ( at least when he ' s not bald ) , who should appear at least 30 years older than Jean Grey and Scott Summers , but James McAvoy ' s youthful features make him look like he ' s only about 15 years their senior . Psylocke ' s revealing uniform◊ is n ' t sensible for a battle , but it does provide Fanservice . It ' s actually sexier in the movie - verse than in the comics because of the addition of a boob window . Louise Mingenbach ( the costume designer ) confesses on the " Clan of Akkaba : Apocalypse and his Horsemen " documentary on the Blu - Ray that a Los Angeles sex shop had created the latex suit . The semi - transparent vertical " stripes " ◊ on Charles ' white shirt . It even seems out - of - character for him to put on a garment which could potentially be distracting to some of his students as he had never been overtly objectified in the franchise before . ( Another way to look at it is if a female teacher had worn the same shirt , it would be considered inappropriate . ) This was clearly done by the costume designer to exploit James McAvoy ' s desirability before his character loses his hair and becomes more serious . Xavier ' s lilac shirt is also mildly erotic because depending on his movements or body position , the outline of his pecs is sometimes well - defined , and there are a few blink - and - you ' ll - miss - it moments where the shape of his nipples is visible through the thin fabric . X - Men : Days of Future Past : the presence ( or at least the desire to have it ) or absence of Magneto ' s telepathy - blocking helmet is a fairly good gauge of how unhealthy or healthy his relationship with Professor X is . As Simon Kinberg puts it , the finale marks the beginning of the characters ' Friendly Enemy dynamic : " At the end of the movie , [ Magneto ] flies away without his helmet , with the implication that he ' ll go off and continue to be Magneto in some form , but not be able to hide it from Charles , who ' ll be able to read his mind and track him . There ' s a truce of some kind between Charles and Magneto , but there ' s a part of Magneto that will always be the Magneto we know from the comics . " This article has made the following observation about the elderly Erik : " From the photos , we see that Ian McKellen ' s older Magneto has no need for his iconic helmet that protects him from mutant telepaths since he ' s once again allied with old friend Charles Xavier . " The Four Horsemen represent four different aspects of a cult ' s power to attract and recruit new members.Bryan Singer : It has a political faction , and I ' d always felt Magneto could fill those shoes . It always has a military faction , so Archangel could fill those shoes as the guardian . There ' s also a youth faction . Those that you ' re trying to seduce and grow into your cult — the young , whose minds are malleable [ such as Storm ] . And lastly , the sexual component , because cult leaders tend to sexualize their position and have sex with half the people in their cult . And the Psylocke character , who was a very bright character in the comic , but is always looking for guidance and leadership , always trying to find the right guy , so she ends up with Apocalypse in this one . There are bookends in Charles ' study which are shaped like the mythological figure Atlas , and they symbolize his heavy burden of trying to save the world.We look around Xavier ' s school some more , exploring every nook and cranny of Prof. X ' s office . We spot a couple of Atlas - themed book - ends , with two muscular men carrying planets on their backs . It makes us flashback to that dark room , where we saw McAvoy cry . If ever there was a man with the weight of the world on his shoulders , it ' s James McAvoy ' s Professor X . Charles and Erik have at least one costume which was strongly influenced by Miami Vice , and they are basically dressed as Detective Crockett and Detective Tubbs , respectively . Like Crockett and Tubbs , Xavier and Lehnsherr are Heterosexual Life - Partners . An In - Universe version when Magneto signals his Heel – Face Turn by slamming down two huge girders in Apocalypse ' s path in the form of an X . X - Men : Rogue runs away from home after her power manifests while kissing her boyfriend , which causes him to have a seizure and fall into a coma for three weeks . X - Men Origins : Wolverine : A young James Howlett and Victor Creed flee from home together after James stabs and kills Thomas Logan for murdering his father , then finds out that Thomas was his real father . X2 : X - Men United : Professor X desperately yells " SCOTT ! ! ! " when he realizes that Stryker has set up a trap for him . In 1973 , Xavier angrily screams " ERIIIIIIIIK ! ! ! " when Sentinels begin shooting at the crowd that has gathered at the White House . Although Magneto ( who is wearing a telepathy - blocking helmet ) has not yet appeared in his line of vision , Charles just knows that no one else would be causing this mayhem . Logan hollers " CHARLES ! " to warn his ally ( who is wheelchair - bound ) that he ' s about to be hit by a large chunk of the stadium . Xavier yells " JEEEEEEAN ! ! ! " to snap her out of her visions of the world ' s end . An alarmed Raven shouts " CHARLES ! ! ! " when her unconscious foster brother is kidnapped by Magneto . Apocalypse bellows Charles ' name several times at Large Ham levels while searching for his escaped prisoner . Desperate for help , Cyclops yells " HANK ! ! ! " twice as Apocalypse partially fuses Scott into a wall . X - Men : Professor X uses his psychic ability to experience Senator Kelly ' s memory of being exposed to Magneto ' s machine . X - Men : First Class : Charles can " eavesdrop " on a conversation that Emma Frost has with a Soviet general by telepathically inhabiting a nearby soldier . X - Men : Days of Future Past : Past Xaavier is able to figure out where Raven is heading because when he had temporarily " possessed " a stewardess who had bumped into his foster sister , the stewardess had picked up Raven ' s plane ticket from the floor , and he can read its contents from the stewardess ' field of vision . In The Rogue Cut , Future Professor X can view the mansion through Magneto ' s and Iceman ' s minds , and he gives them instructions as they walk in hidden passageways towards the Cerebro room . X - Men : Apocalypse : Charles sees Jean ' s visions of planet - wide destruction as if they were his own . X2 : X - Men United : After being briefly overwhelmed by her telepathy , Jean Grey tells Scott that " something bad is supposed to happen . " The Wolverine : Yukio knows when , where and how a person will die . X - Men : Apocalypse : Jean ' s precognitive ability expresses itself as a terrible dream full of death and mass destruction . X2 : X - Men United : The rule - abiding , Nice Guy Iceman juxtaposes the rebellious , Jerkass Pyro . At the museum ' s food court , John is being rude to a young man who asks to borrow his lighter , and Bobby tells his friend to knock it off , plainly disapproving of John ' s annoying behaviour . When the police order the mutants to get on the ground , Drake immediately obeys , but Allerdyce attacks the officers with giant fire balls . X - Men : First Class : Charles Xavier is the Sensitive Guy to Erik Lehnsherr ' s Manly Man . They display this dynamic in their personalities ( All - Loving Hero vs. Anti - Hero ) and physique ( Pretty Boy vs . Tall , Dark , and Handsome ) as well as their philosophies and methods ( Wide - Eyed Idealist vs. Pay Evil unto Evil ) . X - Men : Days of Future Past : Charles in 1973 is more accurately an Overly Sensitive Guy with Wolverine taking over the Manly Man role . Logan has to act as the " glue " which barely holds the emotionally fragile Xavier together in order to complete their mission . Their opposite natures are most directly contrasted in the Pentagon kitchen scene , where Charles attempts to persuade the guards that he and his partner have a valid reason to be there , while Wolverine just knocks them out with a frying pan . Each film in the original trilogy was bigger / more expensive than the previous one , which is why Fox started spin - offs instead of making an X4 . The scope of the First Class trilogy gradually increased with each subsequent entry , but the production budget of X - Men : Apocalypse ( $ 178 million ) is $ 22 million lower than X - Men : Days of Future Past ( $ 200 million ) . X2 : X - Men United : She seduces a guard by taking the form of a hot blonde so she can use him in Magneto ' s escape from prison . She later utilizes it on Logan by trying to seduce him in the form of Jean Grey . Logan catches her , and she goes through several other forms , including Storm , Rogue and even Stryker , but he tells her to leave . X - Men : First Class : She upgrades her age by about 15 years to please Erik , which does n ' t really work for her until he tells Raven that he prefers her without the shapeshifted appearance . X - Men : Days of Future Past : Mystique does a sultry variation of her Raven form and pretends to be a disco - loving interpreter to gain access to a Vietnamese general ' s hotel room in order to steal his invitation to the Paris Peace Accords . X - Men : Apocalypse : Her electric purple ensemble is quite revealing , and it ' s meant to be a distraction to the big , burly guards at the fight club venue ; one underestimates her by calling her " little mouse . " X - Men Origins : Wolverine took this to an extreme , much to the delight of Hugh Jackman fangirls . During a dramatic escape scene , not only does he erupt from a tank of water completely shirtless ( and indeed naked , muscles + dripping water ... ) , but he then proceeds to escape , running and fighting his way out of the building . Viewers get a lovable full - body shot ( in which censorship is barely provided by his leg from a mostly - side - shot ) when he jumps off a waterfall . X - Men : Days of Future Past : The younger Magneto is bare - chested when he ' s analyzing the Sentinel schematics . The body Apocalypse is transferring himself into at the beginning of the film is wearing nothing but a loincloth . Angel ' s torso is bare when Apocalypse transforms him into Archangel . Wolverine is seen shirtless when he escapes the Weapon X facility . X - Men : Days of Future Past : Eleven years after X - Men : First Class , Charles and Raven have not only become estranged , but also polar opposites in almost every way , especially in regards to ideology and diplomacy . Her sparing of Trask and the president shows that she is n ' t quite as far gone as originally believed , though . X - Men : Apocalypse : Although Charles and Raven are on better terms than in X - Men : Days of Future Past , they still strongly disagree over how humans in general treat mutants . He believes the world is gradually becoming more tolerant of their kind , but she has seen with her own eyes that there ' s still a lot of oppression . This article uses the metaphor of Xavier being a peaceful dove and Mystique is an aggressive hawk.Charles : I have plans for this place . I mean to turn it into a real campus , a university . Not just for mutants , either ; for humans , too . Living and working , growing together . Raven : You know , I really believed that once . I really believed we can change them . Charles : We did . Raven : Just because there ' s not a war , does n ' t mean there ' s peace . You wan na teach your kids something , teach them that , teach them to fight , otherwise they might as well live in this house for the rest of their lives . X2 : X - Men United : The wheelchair - bound Professor X sheds a single tear of joy when he ' s able to stand again on his own — but then he quickly realizes that he ' s in a Lotus - Eater Machine and tries to resist Jason ' s ability . Charles wipes a single tear from his cheek after he uncovers a happy memory from Erik ' s childhood involving the latter ' s mother with his telepathy . Despite living a much more comfortable and privileged life than his friend , the one beautiful thing that Charles never got to experience is a mother ' s warm affection . In the same scene , a visible tear falls down Erik ' s face because he did n ' t know he still carried that cherished memory of his mother . After Charles gets shot , he only sheds one noticeable tear which is partly because of his injury , but mostly because he is forced to tell Erik that no , they really do not want the same thing , and knows that this realization will push his friend away for good . X - Men : Apocalypse : Magneto sheds a lone tear when he remembers the close friendship he once had with Charles . X2 : X - Men United : Logan does this in a flashback where he wakes up in a tank of water with no memories and metal claws shoot out of his hands . X - Men : The Last Stand : Wolverine does this after reluctantly killing Jean Grey / Phoenix . This was done three times in X - Men Origins : Wolverine . X - Men : First Class : Xavier does this right after a bullet enters his spine . X - Men : Days of Future Past : Blink lets out a small cry towards the heavens after being stabbed by three Sentinels . X - Men : Apocalypse : Magneto , whose powers have been boosted by Apocalypse , does this as he disintegrates the Auschwitz concentration camp . Wolverine is often seen wearing a tank top . X - Men : The Last Stand : Colossus ' uniform is sleeveless , showing off his muscles and more of his transformation when using his power . X - Men : First Class : During the training scene , everyone gets matching grey tracksuits , but inexplicably , Havok ' s does n ' t have sleeves . " X - Men : Apocalypse ' : Unlike their male teammates , Storm ' s and Psylocke ' s Horsemen apparel expose their arms . Previous films had established that Professor X is typically The Hammond on this scale , but during the Final Battle in X - Men : Apocalypse , he moves up three steps and briefly becomes The Superman . When Apocalypse gives Charles a Sadistic Choice — surrender , or Mystique and Quicksilver will die — Beast and Cyclops volunteer to rescue their teammates , but Xavier stops them because he would rather sacrifice himself than see anyone he cares about get hurt . This turns out to be an unacceptable option because Charles is the Earth ' s Barrier Maiden ( and he obviously does n ' t want to put billions of lives at risk ) , but he then challenges Apocalypse to a mind duel , which creates a much - needed distraction . Xavier gets pummeled on the astral plane , and he only asks Jean Grey — whom he loves like a daughter and is naturally protective of her — to intervene when he knows he ' s dying . And subverted in real life . Everyone on the set naturally assumed that the erudite Ian McKellen and Patrick Stewart knew how to play chess , but neither of them did . As Stewart explained , he was always too busy with his career . They had to be taught by a world champion ; Stewart said it was " like learning to drive with Michael Schumacher " . In X - Men : Days of Future Past , it was more like discussing with a chess table between Charles and Erik , without playing much . The lack of play and banter almost seems to symbolize the extreme distance and hostility ( perhaps the worst in the series ) between them , including Erik ' s violent outburst just minutes earlier . Angel is able to jump through a skyscraper window without obtaining so much as a scratch , shirtless . And then there ' s Storm , whose face is slammed through a glass table during a fight scene , yet she does n ' t suffer from any cuts . X - Men : Days of Future Past : A glass ceiling that has been cracked into a thousand pieces falls right on top of Erik , and he does n ' t get a single scratch . In Real Life , the stunt double suffered from mild injuries , according to Bryan Singer ' s commentary , because real glass was used for that scene . It ' s the first entry in the franchise which does n ' t feature Wolverine or Professor X either as major characters or as cameos . This is also the first X - Men film to be rated R in the USA , with much more graphic violence , profanity and sexual content than usual . Black leather . First Class has them wear spandexy - Kevlar and denim ( modelled after real life battle fatigues ) , and DOFP has kevlar plates mixed with spandex and regular pants . Unlike her comic book counterpart , Negasonic Teenage Warhead does n ' t die in her first appearance in the movie - verse . Wolverine is by far the most guilty of this . He is the main protagonist of six films ( the original trilogy and his spin - offs ) , the Supporting Protagonist of one , and he has a cameo in two . Professor X is a close runner - up ; he was an important secondary character in the original trilogy and Logan , a main character in the First Class trilogy , has two cameos , and will appear in X - Men : Dark Phoenix . Magneto is a major character in the original trilogy and the First Class trilogy , and he has a cameo in one movie . In X - Men : Apocalypse , immediately after Xavier accomplishes a Did You Just Flip Off Cthulhu ? by modifying the final sentence of Apocalypse ' s planet - wide New Era Speech , Charles brazenly glares at his captor , unflinching and undaunted by any punishment that may befall him . It proves that Professor X will oppose Apocalypse with every fiber of his being , no matter how futile it is . X - Men : The Last Stand : Professor X transfers his mind into the man with the coma ... The Wolverine : Two years later , Magneto is shown to have regained his mutant power and Xavier is revealed to be alive . They both meet with Logan at an airport and ask him to join them fighting the new weapon that the humans have created to destroy the mutants . X - Men : Days of Future Past : En Sabah Nur uses his Mind over Matter powers to build a pyramid in Ancient Egypt while his Four Horsemen are seen in the background . Deadpool : The after - credits scene is where Deadpool tells the people in the audience to go home , since the show ' s over ( while dressed as Ferris Bueller to make sure the Shout - Out is clear ) . However , he later relents , and uses the time left in the movie to mention that the sequel will bring Cable into the mix . X - Men : Apocalypse : It involves the abandoned Alkali Lake facility being raided by Essex Corp . If you do n ' t understand the significance , Mr. Sinister ' s name is Nathaniel Essex . The genetic material from Wolverine later results in the creation of X - 23 . Professor X ' s Telepathy is such that most of the movies would be over very , very quickly if he did not frequently get incapacitated or rendered powerless in some way . X - Men : Days of Future Past : Quicksilver gets Put on a Bus after the Pentagon raid because , as that raid shows , he is downright unstoppable . While moving at Super Speed , simply tapping a person is the practical equivalent of getting hit by a heavyweight boxer , and he can take out an entire room of armed guards so quickly that their bullets were n ' t even able to reach the people they had shot at when he started . X - Men : Apocalypse : Kurt ' s energy level drains rapidly if he teleports too many people at the same time , and he ' s inert for part of the Final Battle . John Ottman divulges in the " Unlimited Powers : VFX , Stunts and Set Pieces " featurette on the Blu - Ray the reason for the limitation on the character ' s endurance.Ottman : This is why we knocked Nightcrawler out . Because for the whole third act , if he ' s around , he can just bamf people endlessly . X - Men : First Class : Erik has a minor one on the wall of his Geneva hotel room for his Nazi hunt before going to the banker . Deadpool : While hunting Ajax in a Roaring Rampage of Revenge montage , Deadpool creates one of these as he eliminates one lead after the other . X - Men : The Last Stand : Cyclops . Double points for being killed by his lover ! Triple points for being a Rare Male Example ! X - Men Origins : Wolverine : Temporary Love Interest Kayla . Then subverted when we learn her death was faked and Stryker was specifically invoking this so Logan would agree to join the Weapon X program , and double subverted when she is Stuffed into the Fridge for real . Also , the old couple who help Logan and are killed by Agent Zero , and arguably John Wraith when he is killed by Victor . X - Men : First Class : Edie Lehnsherr is murdered by Dr. Klaus Schmidt just so her son Erik would embark on a Roaring Rampage of Revenge against his former captor . Erik ' s wife and daughter are killed off to fuel his anguish for the rest of the story , and to make him vulnerable to Apocalypse ' s influence . In a rare male example , Alex dies to kick - start his younger brother ' s Scott Character Development . Xavier ' s School for Gifted Youngsters is both an educational institution for young mutants and the secret base for the X - Men . Professor X is one of the most powerful fictional psychic characters , and while he ' s not telekinetic , his ability to rewrite mindsnote which he had threatened Logan with in X2 : X - Men United and hijack any person he wants make telekinesis seem like child ' s play . X - Men : First Class : Sebastian Shaw ' s base ability of Energy Absorption is set so high and is so versatile that not even Erik can hold him once he ' s absorbed the power of a nuclear reactor . He can not be punched or shot as he nullifies kinetic energy , and he ' s smart enough to have crafted a helmet that completely blocks Charles ' telepathy . X - Men : Apocalypse : Because En Sabah Nur can transfer his consciousness to new host bodies and acquires the powers of every new host , he ' s amassed so many superpowers over thousands of years that many ( including himself ) believe him to be a god . His powers include Super Strength , mass telekinesis at the molecular level , a protective forcefield that can block almost any attack , teleporting around the world through a purple force field , healing powers ( from his latest host ) , and amplifying the powers of other mutants . His goal in the film is to acquire Xavier ' s Psychic Powers by using him as a new host and Mind Control the entire planet . X2 : X - Men United : Jean Grey and Storm willingly ally with Wolverine and Nightcrawler , plus Magneto and Mystique ( relunctantly ) to stop Styker from committing mutant genocide . X - Men Origins : Wolverine : Colonel Stryker assembles Team X which features James Howlett , Victor Creed , John Wraith , Agent Zero , Christopher Bradley , Wade Wilson and Fred Dukes . Some of them do n ' t get along very well . X - Men : First Class : Professor X , Magneto , Beast , Mystique , Havok and Banshee form the proto X - Men . Charles Xavier ' s primary goal is to avert World War III , while the other members are seeking Revenge against Sebastian Shaw for murdering someone they cared about . Deadpool : The eponymous character teams up with Colossus and Negasonic Teenage Warhead to take down Ajax , Angel Dust and their mooks . Type - 1 : Xavier if his mutant powers are blocked or inactive ( Type 0 before getting paralyzed ) . Type 0 : Regular humans , Depowered mutants.note Although Magneto shows proof to the contrary ... Type 1 : William Stryker ( at least when he was younger ) , Agent Moira MacTaggert , Mariko Yashida , Kenuichio Harada , Shingen Yashida , Vanessa Carlysle . Type 4 : Professor X , Magneto , Stormnote although her only power display which reaches this level occurs in X2 : X - Men United when she summons multiple tornadoes over a large area ; in most circumstances , her use of lightning , wind , fog and temperature change are highly localized , so they generally veer towards Type 3 , Jean Grey ( after exposure to Magneto ' s machine ) , Sebastian Shaw , Quicksilver , Kitty Pryde ( after she gains the ability to perform Mental Time Travel ) , Future Sentinels , Apocalypse . Type 5 : Professor X ( while connected to Cerebro or empowered by Apocalypse ) , the Phoenix , Magneto ( empowered by Apocalypse , which gives him the ability to manipulate the Earth ' s magnetic fields ) . Professor X was Wolverine ' s mentor in the original trilogy , but in 1973 , Logan has to try to motivate and counsel an emotionally damaged Xavier.Professor X : Logan , you ' re going to have to do for me what I once did for you . Lead me , guide me . Not surprisingly , the abrasive Wolverine is n ' t very good at this task , and it ' s lampshaded in the following exchange : Past Charles : I ' m sorry Logan , but they sent back the wrong man . Logan : You ' re right , I am . Actually , it was supposed to be you , but I was the only one who could physically make the trip . This also applies to Charles and Hank . In X - Men : First Class , Xavier acted as a big brother figure to McCoy ( they ' re about a decade apart in age ) , but after 1963 , Hank becomes responsible for Charles . Although McCoy certainly prevents his friend from doing anything too self - destructive , he inadvertently becomes Xavier ' s enabler by inventing an addictive telepathy - blocking serum . Considering that Hank was probably only around 21 years old when he suddenly found himself in the position of being Charles ' long - term caregiver ( plus he has no experience looking after someone who is mentally ill ) , it ' s understandable that he could n ' t help his former mentor as well as he would ' ve liked . X - Men : At the end , Magneto is locked in a cell made entirely of plastic . X - Men : The Last Stand : Magneto attacks a mobile prison convoy that contains several dangerous mutants . Juggernaut is manacled to the wall 24 hours a day so he can not build up any momentum . X - Men : Days of Future Past : Subverted . The concrete cell under the Pentagon was not built specifically for Magneto , but simply constructed that way because steel was being rationed at the time . It still holds him quite well , though . Hugh Jackman ' s portrayal of Wolverine certainly qualifies , although the comic book did not depict him this way . He ' s dark , broody , dangerous , and mysterious . Colossus is the tallest X - Man , and he also happens to be a brunet and good - looking . Magneto as a younger man when played by Michael Fassbender in the First Class trilogy . X - Men : Days of Future Past : Erik asks Mystique , " Are you still Charles ' Raven ... or are you Mystique ? " ( What Magneto is truly referring to with the latter is if she ' s still his soldier . ) In the end , she chooses her own path . She does n ' t adhere to her foster brother ' s pacifism , and she rejects her former lover ' s warmongering . Deadpool : When Wade pegs Negasonic as an angsty teenager , he predicts she ' ll either stick to sullen silence or make a mean comment . She thinks for a moment , and says he ' s really " got [ her ] in a box here , " to Wade ' s delight . X - Men : Apocalypse : Apocalypse offers Professor X a Sadistic Choice : if Charles immediately surrenders ( which would fulfill Apocalypse ' s plan for world domination ) , then the lives of the " weaklings " ( Mystique and Quicksilver ) will be spared , or if he continues to hide , then Apocalypse will murder both mutants , and it ' s only matter of time before Apocalypse finds out where Xavier is . Professor X decides to initiate a Battle in the Center of the Mind instead , which distracts Apocalypse , and thus Mystique ' s and Quicksilver ' s executions are delayed . Professor Charles Xavier . Best shown in X - Men : The Last Stand during his funeral , where a massive amount of his students cried during it . His tombstone reads , " Father , Teacher , Friend " , and naturally " Father " is listed first because he was viewed by the youngsters ( especially those who are orphans or have been disowned by their families ) as primarily a paternal figure . X - Men : First Class : Erik Lehnsherr has a " tough love " approach with the young mutants ( Sean Cassidy learns this the hard way ) . Charles might qualify as well , but he tends to act more like the nurturing Team Mom . Insert witty commentary here . X - Men : Apocalypse : James McAvoy stresses in the June 2016 issue of F*** magazine that Professor X , for all of his kindness and altruism , has a profound psychological need to be the " king of the castle , " so to speak . Xavier genuinely loves his friends and his students and he cares deeply about them , but it ' s also very important to him to hold a certain amount of authority over them.McAvoy : That ' s partly why he ' s building a school and he wants that family that he never really had , and he wants to be the father . He ' s got that slight ... he ' s a good man , but he ' s got a little bit of a god complex as well . He wants to be at the head of the table . It ' s a good thing , but it ' s his flaw as well . As a man with an androgynous personality , Professor X is a father figure to his surrogate family who also has a prominent " motherly " side . Xavier had already exhibited strong nurturing tendencies in X - Men : First Class , and here , he calls his students " my darlings " when he sends them off to bed , and he even uses a Mary Poppins reference ( the joke being that he behaves slightly like a " governess " around the younger children ) . He is very gentle and caring when he soothes Jean ' s fears about her death - filled " nightmare " and her telepathy . After Raven becomes his Number Two within the X - Men , Charles ' " maternal " approach appears more pronounced because Mystique is the drill sergeant who molds the team into soldiers , and he ' s the one who takes charge of their academic education and their emotional well - being . Ororo is the matriarch of her small band of street urchins . She steals to feed them , and they obey her when she shoos them off so that she can have a private conversation with Apocalypse . Nightcrawler , Wraith , Weapon XI and Azazel all do this . X - Men : First Class : " Gentlemen , this is why the CIA is no place for a woman . " Cue a huge crash as Emma Frost is busted out of her cell . Deadpool : Wade bets Francis that things ca n ' t get worse from " round - the - clock torture . " Oh , how wrong he is . X - Men : Apocalypse : After Cyclops , Jean and Nightcrawler free Wolverine from the Weapon X facility , Cyclops states that he hopes to never see Logan again . X - Men : Days of Future Past : A huge part of 1973 Charles ' character development is centered around his huge capacity for empathy , and how he needs to learn to move past his own pain for the benefit of others , so he spends a good percentage of the film either on the verge of tears or outright crying . X - Men : Apocalypse : There ' s a lot of focus in this story on Xavier ' s sensitivity , and he ' s either close to tears , shedding a few of them , or openly weeping when someone he cares about is in pain . X - Men : First Class ends with Erik outright proclaiming that he prefers his new moniker : Magneto . The Wolverine : When Yukio tells Logan it ' s an honour to meet the Wolverine , he mutters , " That ' s not who I am anymore . " When Hank tells Logan that " the Professor is n ' t here , " Xavier is still living at his estate , only he has lost his powers and the will to lead mutants , thus dissociating himself from his identity as Professor X . It doubles as a Call - Back to First Class when he insisted that " You do n ' t get to be called a ' professor ' until you actually have a teaching position . " In Saigon , Mystique tells Alex that Raven is n ' t her name anymore . Given how the film ends , it ' s ambiguous if she still feels this way . X - Men : Apocalypse : Charles pleads with Erik not to join Apocalypse , but Lehnsherr has already reclaimed his Magneto persona.Xavier : Erik , do n ' t join them . Magneto : Whatever it is you think you saw in me , I buried it with my family . The majority of characters who appear in both the original trilogy and the First Class trilogy . Wolverine is a notable exception . X - Men : It begins in 1944 , and then jumps to 2005.note The latter is confirmed by Viral Marketing for X - Men : Days of Future Past . X - Men Origins : Wolverine : There is a 6 - year gap after Logan quits Team X , but it has n ' t been made clear when precisely in the The ' 70s and / or The ' 80s the story takes place . X - Men : First Class : Has a few scenes in 1944 , and then moves forward to 1962 . The Wolverine : There is a flashback from 1945 , and the rest occurs in 2013 . The Stinger is in 2015 . X - Men : Days of Future Past : Goes back and fourth between 1973 and 2023 . The Stinger is set thousands of years ago in Ancient Egypt . X - Men : Apocalypse : The Distant Prologue is in Ancient Egypt 3600 BC , but the main setting is 1983 . From X - Men : The Last Stand to The Wolverine : 7 years.note Viral Marketing for X - Men : Days of Future Past has established that these movies take place in 2006 and 2013 , respectively . From the 1973 section of X - Men : Days of Future Past to X - Men : Apocalypse : 10 years . X2 : X - Men United : The audience is momentarily led to believe this happened at the museum , although what had actually transpired is that Professor X had applied his mind - controlling powers to put everyone on " pause . " X - Men : Days of Future Past : Peter Maximoff uses the super speed version to mess with some Pentagon guards , and to redirect the bullets they had just fired . X - Men : First Class : Erik is originally only able to use his powers when extremely angry . The first two times , it involves maternal separation . X - Men Origins : Wolverine : James Howlett ' s awakening occurs when he stabs his father ' s killer to death . Deadpool : Invoked by Ajax . His Super Soldier factory works by grabbing people , pumping them full of a mutant gene kickstarting serum , and then torturing them until the trauma gives them superpowers ( or they die , whichever comes first ) . Deadpool ' s powers get activated when he is deprived oxygen for an entire night . X - Men Origins : Wolverine : Logan ' s response when asked how his execution by firing squad went . Wolverine reminds Professor X that " Patience is n ' t my strongest suit . " Kitty Pryde warns Logan that her power " might sting a little " ; he then screams at the top of his lungs when she activates it . X - Men : Apocalypse : Most definitely applies when Wolverine is involved . The " little help " was basically doing all the killing for them.Raven : Well , you ' ve been busy . Scott : We had a ... little help . There are plenty of other things that Hank could do with his time , yet he chooses to take care of Charles during the latter ' s decade - long Heroic BSoD . Hank may even be a little too loyal because he serves as an enabler by providing a serum which worsens his friend ' s already bad case of substance abuse . Wolverine has developed this for Xavier during the Time Skip after the post - credits scene of The Wolverine . Although both Magneto and Professor X are co - leaders of the remaining X - Men in 2023 , Logan only defers to Charles ' authority . When Erik tells him that , " You ' ll need me as well [ in the past ] , " Wolverine is wholly against the idea , but he reluctantly agrees after Xavier nods in approval . Although Havok was under Professor X ' s tutelage for no more than a year when he was a teen , note it started from the lead - up to the Cuban Missile Crisis and it ended when Alex was drafted for The Vietnam War after Xavier ' s school was open for only one semester he remains grateful for the help that Charles gave to him . Havok is the first one to run after the Professor and try to rescue him when his ex - mentor is seized by Magneto . Apocalypse ' s original crew were all willing to defend their master until their last breath . X - Men : Days of Future Past : Mystique ' s plan was simply to avenge a number of dead mutants by murdering the man who had abducted them and experimented with their corpses . That man had projects , rejected by the Congress , to build powerful robots to kill mutants . His death proved his point , that mutants were an actual menace , and so his projects were restored and continued . The Sentinels would prove so deadly and effective that they would cause the apocalyptic future seen at the beginning of the story . Of course , Mystique had never intended any of that ; all she wanted was plain revenge . X - Men : Apocalypse : After mutants became public knowledge in 1973 , a cult was formed to worship En Sabah Nur , and Agent Moira MacTaggert ' s investigation inadvertently awakens him because his followers always cover up the entrance to his resting place , but she had left it exposed to sunlight , which reanimates him . Downplayed with Professor X , as his habit of always being dapper is n ' t treated as a negative trait In - Universe . However , the attention he pays to his appearance does subtly distinguish his brand of androgynous masculinity from the other two male leads in the franchise ( namely the macho Wolverine and the manly Magneto ) . Vanity , thy name is Charles Xavier . Although his preoccupation with his looks is an aspect of his androgyny , unlike most other male examples , it ' s not presented as being demeaning to his character . Professor X ' s feminine side is his most valuable asset in the story , and because Beauty Equals Goodness applies in his case , taking pride in his attractiveness is an extension of him being thoroughly at ease and joyful with his inborn empathy . Quicksilver checks his hair and teeth in the mirror of this commercial , and he ' s a Manchild . When Evan Peters was asked in this interview to describe his character in only three words , the actor replied , " Fast , cheeky , stylish , " so preening is important to Peter Maximoff . X2 : X - Men United : The opening has this being used by a Brainwashed and Crazy Nightcrawler , who later moves to the good guys ' side . X - Men : First Class : Azazel is a henchman of the Hellfire Club , and he knows how to use his mutant power to deadly effect . X - Men : Apocalypse : It ' s one of Apocalypse ' s ( the Big Bad of the story ) numerous mutant abilities to generate a purple sphere and warp from place to place . X - Men : First Class : Riptide has no dialogue . X - Men : Days of Future Past : Sunspot does n ' t speak in the theatrical version , but he does get one line in The Rogue Cut . X - Men : Apocalypse : Wolverine has no dialogue ; he just grunts and roars . As with the comics , as mutant powers are seemingly random , some students at the school have powers are rather ... unthreatening , although these characters are pushed to the background because , frankly , people do n ' t want to watch a film about characters whose power is being mute and having a lizard tongue . It helps to humanize mutants as a whole , as it shows that , while some mutants are fairly dangerous and so it makes sense to be weary , they ' re just as likely to be harmless , and so hunting them down and treating mutants as a whole as inherently dangerous beings is rather unfair . Because of this , mutants are fairly similar to people with mental and social disorders , who are similarly just as likely to be harmless and / or benevolent despite their condition , despite being perceived as dangerous by nature . Nightcrawler ' s irises were yellow in X2 : X - Men United , but they are rimmed with red in X - Men : Apocalypse . X - Men : First Class : After Charles is shot in the spine , the glare of the Cuban sunshine shrinks his pupils , which makes his irises appear very large , and they are a stunning shade of vibrant blue , especially in close - up . His Innocent Blue Eyes are shiny and wet with tears due to the intense physical and emotional pain , and it marks the character ' s Break the Cutie moment . 1973 Xavier collapses after the serum wears off , and there are a few close - ups of his eyes . The colour of his irises is quite vivid , and they fully express his mental anguish and vulnerability in that scene . It ' s a stark contrast from his hopeful and confident Innocent Blue Eyes in First Class . Blink ' s irises are a weird aqua , complete with a Sickly Green Glow . X - Men : Apocalypse : Just before Professor X enters Apocalypse ' s mind , the camera zooms in on the former ' s right eye . It ' s so blue that it ' s practically glowing , and it ' s wracked with pain and fear because of the grisly abuse that Apocalypse has put him through , but Charles ' iris also exudes his defiance , and he ' s determined to fight his adversary to the bitter end . X2 : X - Men United : Colonel Stryker says this to Senator Kelly ( or who he thinks is Kelly ) . " I was piloting Black Ops missions in the jungles of North Vietnam while you were sucking on your mama ' s tit at Woodstock , Kelly . " X - Men : The Last Stand : Beast pulls one of these on Wolverine , but the former is approximately 110 years younger than the latter . " My boy , I have been fighting for mutant rights since before you had claws . " X2 : X - Men United : Nightcrawler breaches security at the White House and comes within an inch of stabbing the president before being winged by a Secret Service agent , allowing Nightcrawler to break free of his mind control . X - Men : Days of Future Past : The 1973 section of the climax occurs on the lawn in front of the White House , which culminates in Magneto ' s attempt to assassinate President Nixon and his cabinet . X - Men : First Class : While Charles is n ' t exactly naïve , his idealism is accentuated by the fact that everyone else seems to have a far more pessimistic approach to mutant - human relations . It ' s suggested that this is at least partly because he has n ' t faced persecution in the same way . It sets up a nice contrast with his portrayal in the previous films , where he remains idealistic , but is a lot more cautious about it now that he ' s had personal experience . X - Men : Apocalypse : Xavier has regained most of his cheery optimism from First Class , and Word of God even says that he has too much hope at the beginning of the story . By the end of the movie , he becomes The Idealist , i.e . he is no longer " wide - eyed , " but he does n ' t give up hope for peaceful coexistence between mutants and humans . X - Men : The Last Stand : This is Warren Worthington III ' s only " superpower . " Bonus science points in that his wings are probably large enough to actually lift a human , although there are still the typical issues of musculature and bone structure . X - Men : First Class : Angel Salvadore ' s most distinct mutation is her dragonfly - like wings , and she ' s able to disguise them as tattoos . X - Men : Apocalypse : Angel begins the movie with feathered wings , but they are later replaced by metallic ones by Apocalypse . X - Men : First Class : Downplayed with regards to how Shaw views Xavier . They never have a face - to - face confrontation , but Sebastian recognizes that Charles is a formidable foe , hence Shaw ' s commission of the telepathy - blocking helmet and his hope to recruit Xavier when he infiltrates the CIA facility . Moreover , after Charles mind - controls a Soviet officer to fire upon the Aral Sea to avert World War III , Sebastian utters in admiration , " That telepath is powerful , " which implies that Emma Frost ' s psychic ability is n ' t as sophisticated as Xavier ' s . The Wolverine : Viper is rather impressed by Logan . Magneto places Rogue into his machine , knowing full well that she will die from its effects . Toad has no qualms attacking Jean Grey and Storm . Sabretooth wanted to cause Storm enough pain so that she would scream , but he failed twice . After Lady Deathstrike attempts to sedate Cyclops , he hits her with an optic blast , but she recovers quickly due to her Healing Factor . Pyro has no problem throwing a fireball at a female cop who has him at gunpoint . The brutal confrontation between Wolverine and Lady Deathstrike is one of the most violent duels in the franchise . With his Master of Illusion ability , Jason tricked his mother into committing suicide with a power - drill to her temple . Juggernaut is willing to murder Kitty Pryde . Wolverine has no choice but to slay the Phoenix in order to end her catastrophic rampage . Quill gives a Deadly Hug to Dr. Kavita Rao . Sebastian Shaw heartlessly shoots Erik ' s mother dead in front of the boy ' s eyes . Lehnsherr cracks Emma Frost ' s crystalline neck after she refuses to cooperate . Angel Salvadore attacks Havok and Banshee with her highly acidic spit balls , so once they land safely on a beach , Alex Summers unleashes his power and burns her wings . Magneto nearly strangles Agent Moira MacTaggert to death with her own military dog tags , although Xavier manages to talk him out of it . Shingen slaps his daughter Mariko in the face when they get into an argument . Shingen attacks Yukio and a katana duel ensues . He is about to stab her after he knocks her unconscious , but a revived Logan stops Shingen in the nick of time . Major Stryker successfully tasered Mystique , but he failed to shoot her in Saigon and inside The White House ' s underground bunker . Magneto would have murdered Mystique if it were n ' t for Beast ' s timely intervention . While on the hunt for Ajax , Deadpool tracks down and assaults two women , wondering aloud whether not hitting them would be more sexist after one tried to attack him . He does so , while clearly preparing to shoot them at point blank . Colossus does n ' t hesitate fighting Angel Dust once she shows that she ' s as strong as he is . Apocalypse chokes Mystique while lifting her off the ground . Beast performs a Catch and Return with a car that Storm had launched at the X - Men , and he goes on the offensive when the homicidal Psylocke fights him . Cyclops attempts to target Storm with his Eye Beam , and she barely manages to get out of the way . X - Men : First Class : It has a repeated line where Charles urges Erik to " be the better man " and work for more than just revenge . Erik interprets this somewhat differently than Charles intended.Charles : There is so much more to you than you know . Not just pain and anger . There is good , too . I felt it . When you can access all of that , you will possess a power no one can match . Not even me . Deadpool : Colossus keeps handing out speeches to this effect almost every time he speaks to Deadpool throughout the movie , but Deadpool is having none of it . Discussed in Days of Future Past , when Hank posits that time is like a river , and will eventually correct itself no matter how big the ripples one makes , rendering everything they try to do to stop the bad future from occurring ultimately futile . In at least one timeline shown in Logan , his fears are confirmed , as [ [ mutants are still destined to all but die out at the hands of normal humans . ] ] X2 : X - Men United : After Stryker ' s raid on the school , Bobby , Rogue , Logan and Pyro stop by the Drake family house in hopes of regrouping , which in the process reveals Bobby ' s mutant abilities to his parents . His own brother calls the police and reports them as a threat despite the mutants not harbouring any ill intentions . After Pyro stupidly attacks the officers in the standoff that follows , Bobby is forced to flee with the others knowing he can never come back . X - Men Origins : Wolverine : Invoked by a young Victor Creed after James Howlett kills his family ' s groundskeeper . The boys are being pursued by lawmen and search dogs.Jimmy : I want to go home . Victor : We ca n ' t . The Wolverine : Ichiro : Kuzuri . Wolverine : Kuzuri , what does that mean ? Ichiro : Monster . Mariko tells her grandfather that he had become a monster . By this point , he was rightfully past the point of no return for redemption . X - Men : Days of Future Past : The younger Charles considers Magneto to be a monster , which is why he initially resists Logan ' s suggestion that they break Erik out of the Pentagon . X - Men : First Class explores the younger ( and more groovy ) versions of Professor X , Magneto , Mystique and Beast with new actors playing the familiar roles .